---
title: 09
parent: Romans
other: x
---

## Israel’s Rejection Considered

<a name="9:1">9:1</a> I am telling the truth in Christ (I am not lying!), for my conscience assures me in the Holy Spirit — <a name="9:2">9:2</a> I have great sorrow and unceasing anguish in my heart. <a name="9:3">9:3</a> For I could wish that I myself were accursed — cut off from Christ — for the sake of my people, my fellow countrymen, <a name="9:4">9:4</a> who are Israelites. To them belong the adoption as sons, the glory, the covenants, the giving of the law, the temple worship, and the promises. <a name="9:5">9:5</a> To them belong the patriarchs, and from them, by human descent, came the Christ, who is God over all, blessed forever! Amen.

<a name="9:6">9:6</a> It is not as though the word of God had failed. For not all those who are descended from Israel are truly Israel, <a name="9:7">9:7</a> nor are all the children Abraham’s true descendants; rather “through Isaac will your descendants be counted.” <a name="9:8">9:8</a> This means it is not the children of the flesh who are the children of God; rather, the children of promise are counted as descendants. <a name="9:9">9:9</a> For this is what the promise declared: “About a year from now I will return and Sarah will have a son.” <a name="9:10">9:10</a> Not only that, but when Rebekah had conceived children by one man, our ancestor Isaac — <a name="9:11">9:11</a> even before they were born or had done anything good or bad (so that God’s purpose in election would stand, not by works but by his calling) — <a name="9:12">9:12</a> it was said to her, “The older will serve the younger,” <a name="9:13">9:13</a> just as it is written: “Jacob I loved, but Esau I hated.”

<a name="9:14">9:14</a> What shall we say then? Is there injustice with God? Absolutely not! <a name="9:15">9:15</a> For he says to Moses: “I will have mercy on whom I have mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I have compassion.” <a name="9:16">9:16</a> So then, it does not depend on human desire or exertion, but on God who shows mercy. <a name="9:17">9:17</a> For the scripture says to Pharaoh: “For this very purpose I have raised you up, that I may demonstrate my power in you, and that my name may be proclaimed in all the earth.” <a name="9:18">9:18</a> So then, God has mercy on whom he chooses to have mercy, and he hardens whom he chooses to harden.

<a name="9:19">9:19</a> You will say to me then, “Why does he still find fault? For who has ever resisted his will?” <a name="9:20">9:20</a> But who indeed are you — a mere human being — to talk back to God? Does what is molded say to the molder, “Why have you made me like this?” <a name="9:21">9:21</a> Has the potter no right to make from the same lump of clay one vessel for special use and another for ordinary use? <a name="9:22">9:22</a> But what if God, willing to demonstrate his wrath and to make known his power, has endured with much patience the objects of wrath prepared for destruction? <a name="9:23">9:23</a> And what if he is willing to make known the wealth of his glory on the objects of mercy that he has prepared beforehand for glory — <a name="9:24">9:24</a> even us, whom he has called, not only from the Jews but also from the Gentiles? <a name="9:25">9:25</a> As he also says in Hosea:

> “I will call those who were not my people, ‘My people,’ and I will call her who was unloved, ‘My beloved.’”
> <a name="9:26">9:26</a> “And in the very place where it was said to them, ‘You are not my people,’
> there they will be called ‘sons of the living God.’”

<a name="9:27">9:27</a> And Isaiah cries out on behalf of Israel, “Though the number of the children of Israel are as the sand of the sea, only the remnant will be saved, <a name="9:28">9:28</a> for the Lord will execute his sentence on the earth completely and quickly.” <a name="9:29">9:29</a> Just as Isaiah predicted,

> “If the Lord of armies had not left us descendants,
> we would have become like Sodom,
> and we would have resembled Gomorrah.”

## Israel’s Rejection Culpable

<a name="9:30">9:30</a> What shall we say then? — that the Gentiles who did not pursue righteousness obtained it, that is, a righteousness that is by faith, <a name="9:31">9:31</a> but Israel even though pursuing a law of righteousness did not attain it. <a name="9:32">9:32</a> Why not? Because they pursued it not by faith but (as if it were possible) by works. They stumbled over the stumbling stone, <a name="9:33">9:33</a> just as it is written,

> “Look, I am laying in Zion a stone that will cause people to stumble
> and a rock that will make them fall,
> yet the one who believes in him will not be put to shame.”
