---
title: 05
parent: Revelation
other: x
---

## The Opening of the Scroll

<a name="5:1">5:1</a> Then I saw in the right hand of the one who was seated on the throne a scroll written on the front and back and sealed with seven seals. <a name="5:2">5:2</a> And I saw a powerful angel proclaiming in a loud voice: “Who is worthy to open the scroll and to break its seals?” <a name="5:3">5:3</a> But no one in heaven or on earth or under the earth was able to open the scroll or look into it. <a name="5:4">5:4</a> So I began weeping bitterly because no one was found who was worthy to open the scroll or to look into it. <a name="5:5">5:5</a> Then one of the elders said to me, “Stop weeping! Look, the Lion of the tribe of Judah, the root of David, has conquered; thus he can open the scroll and its seven seals.”

<a name="5:6">5:6</a> Then I saw standing in the middle of the throne and of the four living creatures, and in the middle of the elders, a Lamb that appeared to have been killed. He had seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God sent out into all the earth. <a name="5:7">5:7</a> Then he came and took the scroll from the right hand of the one who was seated on the throne, <a name="5:8">5:8</a> and when he had taken the scroll, the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders threw themselves to the ground before the Lamb. Each of them had a harp and golden bowls full of incense (which are the prayers of the saints). <a name="5:9">5:9</a> They were singing a new song:

> “You are worthy to take the scroll
> and to open its seals
> because you were killed,
> and at the cost of your own blood you have purchased for God
> persons from every tribe, language, people, and nation.
> <a name="5:10">5:10</a> You have appointed them as a kingdom and priests to serve our God, and they will reign on the earth.”

<a name="5:11">5:11</a> Then I looked and heard the voice of many angels in a circle around the throne, as well as the living creatures and the elders. Their number was ten thousand times ten thousand — thousands times thousands — <a name="5:12">5:12</a> all of whom were singing in a loud voice:

> “Worthy is the lamb who was killed
> to receive power and wealth
> and wisdom and might
> and honor and glory and praise!”

<a name="5:13">5:13</a> Then I heard every creature — in heaven, on earth, under the earth, in the sea, and all that is in them — singing:

> “To the one seated on the throne and to the Lamb
> be praise, honor, glory, and ruling power forever and ever!”
> <a name="5:14">5:14</a> And the four living creatures were saying “Amen,” and the elders threw themselves to the ground and worshiped.
