---
title: 01
parent: Song of Songs
other: x
---

<a name="1:1">1:1</a> “Solomon’s Most Excellent Love Song.”

## The Desire for Love

### The Beloved to Her Lover:

<a name="1:2">1:2</a> Oh, how I wish you would kiss me passionately!
For your lovemaking is more delightful than wine.
<a name="1:3">1:3</a> The fragrance of your colognes is delightful;
your name is like the finest perfume.
No wonder the young women adore you!
<a name="1:4">1:4</a> Draw me after you; let us hurry!
May the king bring me into his bedroom chambers!

### The Maidens to the Lover:

We will rejoice and delight in you;
we will praise your love more than wine.

### The Beloved to Her Lover:

How rightly the young women adore you!

### The Country Maiden and the Daughters of Jerusalem

### The Beloved to the Maidens:

<a name="1:5">1:5</a> I am dark but lovely, O maidens of Jerusalem,
dark like the tents of Qedar,
lovely like the tent curtains of Salmah.
<a name="1:6">1:6</a> Do not stare at me because I am dark,
for the sun has burned my skin.
My brothers were angry with me;
they made me the keeper of the vineyards.
Alas, my own “vineyard” I could not keep!

## The Shepherd and the Shepherdess

### The Beloved to Her Lover:

<a name="1:7">1:7</a> Tell me, O you whom my heart loves,
where do you pasture your sheep?
Where do you rest your sheep during the midday heat?
Tell me lest I wander around
beside the flocks of your companions!

### The Lover to His Beloved:

<a name="1:8">1:8</a> If you do not know, O most beautiful of women,
simply follow the tracks of my flock,
and pasture your little lambs
beside the tents of the shepherds.

### The Beautiful Mare and the Fragrant Myrrh

### The Lover to His Beloved:

<a name="1:9">1:9</a> O my beloved, you are like a mare
among Pharaoh’s stallions.
<a name="1:10">1:10</a> Your cheeks are beautiful with ornaments;
your neck is lovely with strings of jewels.
<a name="1:11">1:11</a> We will make for you gold ornaments
studded with silver.

### The Beloved about Her Lover:

<a name="1:12">1:12</a> While the king was at his banqueting table,
my nard gave forth its fragrance.
<a name="1:13">1:13</a> My beloved is like a fragrant pouch of myrrh
spending the night between my breasts.
<a name="1:14">1:14</a> My beloved is like a cluster of henna blossoms
in the vineyards of En-Gedi.

## Mutual Praise and Admiration

### The Lover to His Beloved:

<a name="1:15">1:15</a> Oh, how beautiful you are, my beloved!
Oh, how beautiful you are!
Your eyes are like doves!

### The Beloved to Her Lover:

<a name="1:16">1:16</a> Oh, how handsome you are, my lover!
Oh, how delightful you are!
The lush foliage is our canopied bed;
<a name="1:17">1:17</a> the cedars are the beams of our bedroom chamber;
the pines are the rafters of our bedroom.
The Lily among the Thorns and the Apple Tree in the Forest
