---
title: 05
parent: Song of Songs
other: x
---

### The Lover to His Beloved:

<a name="5:1">5:1</a> I have entered my garden, O my sister, my bride;
I have gathered my myrrh with my balsam spice.
I have eaten my honeycomb and my honey;
I have drunk my wine and my milk!

### The Poet to the Couple:

Eat, friends, and drink!
Drink freely, O lovers!

## The Trials of Love: The Beloved’s Dream of Losing Her Lover

### The Beloved about Her Lover:

<a name="5:2">5:2</a> I was asleep but my mind was dreaming.
Listen! My lover is knocking at the door!

### The Lover to His Beloved:

“Open for me, my sister, my darling,
my dove, my flawless one!
My head is drenched with dew,
my hair with the dampness of the night.”

### The Beloved to Her Lover:

<a name="5:3">5:3</a> “I have already taken off my robe — must I put it on again?
I have already washed my feet — must I soil them again?”
<a name="5:4">5:4</a> My lover thrust his hand through the hole,
and my feelings were stirred for him.
<a name="5:5">5:5</a> I arose to open for my beloved;
my hands dripped with myrrh — 
my fingers flowed with myrrh
on the handles of the lock.
<a name="5:6">5:6</a> I opened for my beloved,
but my lover had already turned and gone away.
I fell into despair when he departed.
I looked for him but did not find him;
I called him but he did not answer me.
<a name="5:7">5:7</a> The watchmen found me as they made their rounds in the city.
They beat me, they bruised me;
they took away my cloak, those watchmen on the walls!

## The Triumph of Love: The Beloved Praises Her Lover

### The Beloved to the Maidens:

<a name="5:8">5:8</a> O maidens of Jerusalem, I command you — 
If you find my beloved, what will you tell him?
Tell him that I am lovesick!

### The Maidens to The Beloved:

<a name="5:9">5:9</a> Why is your beloved better than others,
O most beautiful of women?
Why is your beloved better than others,
that you would command us in this manner?

### The Beloved to the Maidens:

<a name="5:10">5:10</a> My beloved is dazzling and ruddy;
he stands out in comparison to all other men.
<a name="5:11">5:11</a> His head is like the most pure gold.
His hair is curly — black like a raven.
<a name="5:12">5:12</a> His eyes are like doves by streams of water,
washed in milk, mounted like jewels.
<a name="5:13">5:13</a> His cheeks are like garden beds full of balsam trees yielding perfume.
His lips are like lilies dripping with drops of myrrh.
<a name="5:14">5:14</a> His arms are like rods of gold set with chrysolite.
His abdomen is like polished ivory inlaid with sapphires.
<a name="5:15">5:15</a> His legs are like pillars of marble set on bases of pure gold.
His appearance is like Lebanon, choice as its cedars.
<a name="5:16">5:16</a> His mouth is very sweet;
he is totally desirable.
This is my beloved!
This is my companion, O maidens of Jerusalem!
