---
title: 02
parent: 1 Peter
other: x
---

<a name="2:1">2:1</a> So get rid of all evil and all deceit and hypocrisy and envy and all slander. <a name="2:2">2:2</a> And yearn like newborn infants for pure, spiritual milk, so that by it you may grow up to salvation, <a name="2:3">2:3</a> if you have experienced the Lord’s kindness.

## A Living Stone, a Chosen People

<a name="2:4">2:4</a> So as you come to him, a living stone rejected by men but chosen and priceless in God’s sight, <a name="2:5">2:5</a> you yourselves, as living stones, are built up as a spiritual house to be a holy priesthood and to offer spiritual sacrifices that are acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. <a name="2:6">2:6</a> For it says in scripture, “Look, I lay in Zion a stone, a chosen and priceless cornerstone, and whoever believes in him will never be put to shame.” <a name="2:7">2:7</a> So you who believe see his value, but for those who do not believe, the stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone, <a name="2:8">2:8</a> and a stumbling-stone and a rock to trip over. They stumble because they disobey the word, as they were destined to do. <a name="2:9">2:9</a> But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people of his own, so that you may proclaim the virtues of the one who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. <a name="2:10">2:10</a> You once were not a people, but now you are God’s people. You were shown no mercy, but now you have received mercy.

<a name="2:11">2:11</a> Dear friends, I urge you as foreigners and exiles to keep away from fleshly desires that do battle against the soul, <a name="2:12">2:12</a> and maintain good conduct among the non-Christians, so that though they now malign you as wrongdoers, they may see your good deeds and glorify God when he appears.

## Submission to Authorities

<a name="2:13">2:13</a> Be subject to every human institution for the Lord’s sake, whether to a king as supreme <a name="2:14">2:14</a> or to governors as those he commissions to punish wrongdoers and praise those who do good. <a name="2:15">2:15</a> For God wants you to silence the ignorance of foolish people by doing good. <a name="2:16">2:16</a> Live as free people, not using your freedom as a pretext for evil, but as God’s slaves. <a name="2:17">2:17</a> Honor all people, love the family of believers, fear God, honor the king.

<a name="2:18">2:18</a> Slaves, be subject to your masters with all reverence, not only to those who are good and gentle, but also to those who are perverse. <a name="2:19">2:19</a> For this finds God’s favor, if because of conscience toward God someone endures hardships in suffering unjustly. <a name="2:20">2:20</a> For what credit is it if you sin and are mistreated and endure it? But if you do good and suffer and so endure, this finds favor with God. <a name="2:21">2:21</a> For to this you were called, since Christ also suffered for you, leaving an example for you to follow in his steps. <a name="2:22">2:22</a> He committed no sin nor was deceit found in his mouth. <a name="2:23">2:23</a> When he was maligned, he did not answer back; when he suffered, he threatened no retaliation, but committed himself to God who judges justly. <a name="2:24">2:24</a> He himself bore our sins in his body on the tree, that we may cease from sinning and live for righteousness. By his wounds you were healed. <a name="2:25">2:25</a> For you were going astray like sheep but now you have turned back to the shepherd and guardian of your souls.
