---
title: 01
parent: 1 Chronicles
other: x
---

## Adam’s Descendants

<a name="1:1">1:1</a> Adam, Seth, Enosh, <a name="1:2">1:2</a> Kenan, Mahalalel, Jered, <a name="1:3">1:3</a> Enoch, Methuselah, Lamech, <a name="1:4">1:4</a> Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth.

## Japheth’s Descendants

<a name="1:5">1:5</a> The sons of Japheth:

Gomer, Magog, Madai, Javan, Tubal, Meshech, and Tiras.

<a name="1:6">1:6</a> The sons of Gomer:

Ashkenaz, Diphath, and Togarmah.

<a name="1:7">1:7</a> The sons of Javan:

Elishah, Tarshish, the Kittites, and the Rodanites.

## Ham’s Descendants

<a name="1:8">1:8</a> The sons of Ham:

Cush, Mizraim, Put, and Canaan.

<a name="1:9">1:9</a> The sons of Cush:

Seba, Havilah, Sabta, Raamah, and Sabteca.

The sons of Raamah:

Sheba and Dedan.

<a name="1:10">1:10</a> Cush was the father of Nimrod, who established himself as a mighty warrior on earth.

<a name="1:11">1:11</a> Mizraim was the father of the Ludites, Anamites, Lehabites, Naphtuhites, <a name="1:12">1:12</a> Pathrusites, Kasluhites (from whom the Philistines descended), and the Kaphtorites.

<a name="1:13">1:13</a> Canaan was the father of Sidon — his firstborn — and Heth, <a name="1:14">1:14</a> as well as the Jebusites, Amorites, Girgashites, <a name="1:15">1:15</a> Hivites, Arkites, Sinites, <a name="1:16">1:16</a> Arvadites, Zemarites, and Hamathites.

## Shem’s Descendants

<a name="1:17">1:17</a> The sons of Shem:

Elam, Asshur, Arphaxad, Lud, and Aram.

The sons of Aram:

Uz, Hul, Gether, and Meshech.

<a name="1:18">1:18</a> Arphaxad was the father of Shelah, and Shelah was the father of Eber. <a name="1:19">1:19</a> Two sons were born to Eber: the first was named Peleg, for during his lifetime the earth was divided; his brother’s name was Joktan.

<a name="1:20">1:20</a> Joktan was the father of Almodad, Sheleph, Hazarmaveth, Jerah, <a name="1:21">1:21</a> Hadoram, Uzal, Diklah, <a name="1:22">1:22</a> Ebal, Abimael, Sheba, <a name="1:23">1:23</a> Ophir, Havilah, and Jobab. All these were the sons of Joktan.

<a name="1:24">1:24</a> Shem, Arphaxad, Shelah, <a name="1:25">1:25</a> Eber, Peleg, Reu, <a name="1:26">1:26</a> Serug, Nahor, Terah, <a name="1:27">1:27</a> Abram (that is, Abraham).

<a name="1:28">1:28</a> The sons of Abraham:

Isaac and Ishmael.

<a name="1:29">1:29</a> These were their descendants:

## Ishmael’s Descendants

Ishmael’s firstborn son was Nebaioth; the others were Kedar, Adbeel, Mibsam, <a name="1:30">1:30</a> Mishma, Dumah, Massa, Hadad, Tema, <a name="1:31">1:31</a> Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah. These were the sons of Ishmael.

## Keturah’s Descendants

<a name="1:32">1:32</a> The sons to whom Keturah, Abraham’s concubine, gave birth:

Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak, Shuah.

The sons of Jokshan:

Sheba and Dedan.

<a name="1:33">1:33</a> The sons of Midian:

Ephah, Epher, Hanoch, Abida, and Eldaah. All these were the sons of Keturah.

## Isaac’s Descendants

<a name="1:34">1:34</a> Abraham was the father of Isaac. The sons of Isaac:

Esau and Israel.

## Esau’s Descendants

<a name="1:35">1:35</a> The sons of Esau:

Eliphaz, Reuel, Jeush, Jalam, and Korah.

<a name="1:36">1:36</a> The sons of Eliphaz:

Teman, Omar, Zephi, Gatam, Kenaz, and (by Timna) Amalek.

<a name="1:37">1:37</a> The sons of Reuel:

Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah.

## The Descendants of Seir

<a name="1:38">1:38</a> The sons of Seir:

Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah, Dishon, Ezer, and Dishan.

<a name="1:39">1:39</a> The sons of Lotan:

Hori and Homam. (Timna was Lotan’s sister.)

<a name="1:40">1:40</a> The sons of Shobal:

Alyan, Manachath, Ebal, Shephi, and Onam.

The sons of Zibeon:

Aiah and Anah.

<a name="1:41">1:41</a> The son of Anah:

Dishon.

The sons of Dishon:

Hamran, Eshban, Ithran, and Keran.

<a name="1:42">1:42</a> The sons of Ezer:

Bilhan, Zaavan, Jaakan.

The sons of Dishan:

Uz and Aran.

## Kings of Edom

<a name="1:43">1:43</a> These were the kings who ruled the land of Edom before any king ruled the Israelites:

Bela son of Beor, whose city was Dinhabah.

<a name="1:44">1:44</a> When Bela died, Jobab son of Zerah, from Bozrah, succeeded him.

<a name="1:45">1:45</a> When Jobab died, Husham from the land of the Temanites succeeded him.

<a name="1:46">1:46</a> When Husham died, Hadad son of Bedad succeeded him. He struck down the Midianites in the plains of Moab; his city was Avith.

<a name="1:47">1:47</a> When Hadad died, Samlah from Masrekah succeeded him.

<a name="1:48">1:48</a> When Samlah died, Shaul from Rehoboth near the river succeeded him.

<a name="1:49">1:49</a> When Shaul died, Baal-Hanan son of Achbor succeeded him.

<a name="1:50">1:50</a> When Baal-Hanan died, Hadad succeeded him; his city was Pai. His wife was Mehetabel, daughter of Matred, daughter of Me-Zahab.

<a name="1:51">1:51</a> Hadad died.

## Tribal Chiefs of Edom

The tribal chiefs of Edom were:

Timna, Alvah, Jetheth, <a name="1:52">1:52</a> Oholibamah, Elah, Pinon, <a name="1:53">1:53</a> Kenaz, Teman, Mibzar, <a name="1:54">1:54</a> Magdiel, Iram. These were the tribal chiefs of Edom.
