---
title: 02
parent: 1 Chronicles
other: x
---

## Israel’s Descendants

<a name="2:1">2:1</a> These were the sons of Israel:

Reuben, Simeon, Levi, and Judah;

Issachar and Zebulun;

<a name="2:2">2:2</a> Dan, Joseph, and Benjamin;

Naphtali, Gad, and Asher.

## Judah’s Descendants

<a name="2:3">2:3</a> The sons of Judah:

Er, Onan, and Shelah. These three were born to him by Bathshua, a Canaanite woman. Er, Judah’s firstborn, displeased the Lord, so the Lord killed him.

<a name="2:4">2:4</a> Tamar, Judah’s daughter-in-law, bore to him Perez and Zerah. Judah had five sons in all.

<a name="2:5">2:5</a> The sons of Perez:

Hezron and Hamul.

<a name="2:6">2:6</a> The sons of Zerah:

Zimri, Ethan, Heman, Kalkol, Dara — five in all.

<a name="2:7">2:7</a> The son of Karmi:

Achan, who brought the disaster on Israel when he stole what was devoted to God.

<a name="2:8">2:8</a> The son of Ethan:

Azariah.

<a name="2:9">2:9</a> The sons born to Hezron:

Jerahmeel, Ram, and Caleb.

## Ram’s Descendants

<a name="2:10">2:10</a> Ram was the father of Amminadab, and Amminadab was the father of Nahshon, the tribal chief of Judah. <a name="2:11">2:11</a> Nahshon was the father of Salma, and Salma was the father of Boaz. <a name="2:12">2:12</a> Boaz was the father of Obed, and Obed was the father of Jesse.

<a name="2:13">2:13</a> Jesse was the father of Eliab, his firstborn; Abinadab was born second, Shimea third, <a name="2:14">2:14</a> Nethanel fourth, Raddai fifth, <a name="2:15">2:15</a> Ozem sixth, David seventh. <a name="2:16">2:16</a> Their sisters were Zeruiah and Abigail. Zeruiah’s three sons were Abshai, Joab, and Asahel. <a name="2:17">2:17</a> Abigail bore Amasa, whose father was Jether the Ishmaelite.

## Caleb’s Descendants

<a name="2:18">2:18</a> Caleb son of Hezron fathered sons by his wife Azubah (also known as Jerioth). Her sons were Jesher, Shobab, and Ardon. <a name="2:19">2:19</a> When Azubah died, Caleb married Ephrath, who bore him Hur. <a name="2:20">2:20</a> Hur was the father of Uri, and Uri was the father of Bezalel.

<a name="2:21">2:21</a> Later Hezron had sexual relations with the daughter of Makir, the father of Gilead. (He had married her when he was sixty years old.) She bore him Segub. <a name="2:22">2:22</a> Segub was the father of Jair, who owned twenty-three cities in the land of Gilead. <a name="2:23">2:23</a> (Geshur and Aram captured the towns of Jair, along with Kenath and its sixty surrounding towns.) All these were descendants of Makir, the father of Gilead.

<a name="2:24">2:24</a> After Hezron’s death, Caleb had sexual relations with Ephrath, his father Hezron’s widow, and she bore to him Ashhur the father of Tekoa.

## Jerahmeel’s Descendants

<a name="2:25">2:25</a> The sons of Jerahmeel, Hezron’s firstborn, were Ram, the firstborn, Bunah, Oren, Ozem, and Ahijah. <a name="2:26">2:26</a> Jerahmeel had another wife named Atarah; she was Onam’s mother.

<a name="2:27">2:27</a> The sons of Ram, Jerahmeel’s firstborn, were Maaz, Jamin, and Eker.

<a name="2:28">2:28</a> The sons of Onam were Shammai and Jada.

The sons of Shammai:

Nadab and Abishur.

<a name="2:29">2:29</a> Abishur’s wife was Abihail, who bore him Ahban and Molid.

<a name="2:30">2:30</a> The sons of Nadab:

Seled and Appaim. (Seled died without having sons.)

<a name="2:31">2:31</a> The son of Appaim:

Ishi.

The son of Ishi:

Sheshan.

The son of Sheshan:

Ahlai.

<a name="2:32">2:32</a> The sons of Jada, Shammai’s brother:

Jether and Jonathan. (Jether died without having sons.)

<a name="2:33">2:33</a> The sons of Jonathan:

Peleth and Zaza.

These were the descendants of Jerahmeel.

<a name="2:34">2:34</a> Sheshan had no sons, only daughters. Sheshan had an Egyptian servant named Jarha. <a name="2:35">2:35</a> Sheshan gave his daughter to his servant Jarha as a wife; she bore him Attai.

<a name="2:36">2:36</a> Attai was the father of Nathan, and Nathan was the father of Zabad. <a name="2:37">2:37</a> Zabad was the father of Ephlal, and Ephlal was the father of Obed. <a name="2:38">2:38</a> Obed was the father of Jehu, and Jehu was the father of Azariah. <a name="2:39">2:39</a> Azariah was the father of Helez, and Helez was the father of Eleasah. <a name="2:40">2:40</a> Eleasah was the father of Sismai, and Sismai was the father of Shallum. <a name="2:41">2:41</a> Shallum was the father of Jekamiah, and Jekamiah was the father of Elishama.

## More of Caleb’s Descendants

<a name="2:42">2:42</a> The sons of Caleb, Jerahmeel’s brother:

His firstborn Mesha, the father of Ziph, and his second son Mareshah, the father of Hebron.

<a name="2:43">2:43</a> The sons of Hebron:

Korah, Tappuah, Rekem, and Shema.

<a name="2:44">2:44</a> Shema was the father of Raham, the father of Jorkeam. Rekem was the father of Shammai. <a name="2:45">2:45</a> Shammai’s son was Maon, who was the father of Beth-Zur.

<a name="2:46">2:46</a> Caleb’s concubine Ephah bore Haran, Moza, and Gazez. Haran was the father of Gazez.

<a name="2:47">2:47</a> The sons of Jahdai:

Regem, Jotham, Geshan, Pelet, Ephah, and Shaaph.

<a name="2:48">2:48</a> Caleb’s concubine Maacah bore Sheber and Tirhanah. <a name="2:49">2:49</a> She also bore Shaaph the father of Madmannah and Sheva the father of Machbenah and Gibea. Caleb’s daughter was Achsah.

<a name="2:50">2:50</a> These were the descendants of Caleb.

The sons of Hur, the firstborn of Ephrath:

Shobal, the father of Kiriath Jearim, <a name="2:51">2:51</a> Salma, the father of Bethlehem, Hareph, the father of Beth-Gader.

<a name="2:52">2:52</a> The sons of Shobal, the father of Kiriath Jearim, were Haroeh, half of the Manahathites, <a name="2:53">2:53</a> the clans of Kiriath Jearim — the Ithrites, Puthites, Shumathites, and Mishraites. (The Zorathites and Eshtaolites descended from these groups.)

<a name="2:54">2:54</a> The sons of Salma:

Bethlehem, the Netophathites, Atroth Beth-Joab, half the Manahathites, the Zorites, <a name="2:55">2:55</a> and the clans of the scribes who lived in Jabez: the Tirathites, Shimeathites, and Sucathites. These are the Kenites who descended from Hammath, the father of Beth-Rechab.
