---
title: 08
parent: 1 Chronicles
other: x
---

## Benjamin’s Descendants (Continued)

<a name="8:1">8:1</a> Benjamin was the father of Bela, his firstborn; Ashbel was born second, Ahrah third, <a name="8:2">8:2</a> Nohah fourth, and Rapha fifth.

<a name="8:3">8:3</a> Bela’s sons were Addar, Gera, Abihud, <a name="8:4">8:4</a> Abishua, Naaman, Ahoah, <a name="8:5">8:5</a> Gera, Shephuphan, and Huram.

<a name="8:6">8:6</a> These were the descendants of Ehud who were leaders of the families living in Geba whom they moved to Manahath: <a name="8:7">8:7</a> Naaman, Ahijah, and Gera, who moved them. Gera was the father of Uzzah and Ahihud.

<a name="8:8">8:8</a> Shaharaim fathered sons in Moab after he divorced his wives Hushim and Baara. <a name="8:9">8:9</a> By his wife Hodesh he fathered Jobab, Zibia, Mesha, Malkam, <a name="8:10">8:10</a> Jeuz, Sakia, and Mirmah. These were his sons; they were family leaders. <a name="8:11">8:11</a> By Hushim he fathered Abitub and Elpaal.

<a name="8:12">8:12</a> The sons of Elpaal:

Eber, Misham, Shemed (who built Ono and Lod, as well as its surrounding towns), <a name="8:13">8:13</a> Beriah, and Shema. They were leaders of the families living in Aijalon and chased out the inhabitants of Gath.

<a name="8:14">8:14</a> Ahio, Shashak, Jeremoth, <a name="8:15">8:15</a> Zebadiah, Arad, Eder, <a name="8:16">8:16</a> Michael, Ishpah, and Joha were the sons of Beriah.

<a name="8:17">8:17</a> Zebadiah, Meshullam, Hizki, Heber, <a name="8:18">8:18</a> Ishmerai, Izliah, and Jobab were the sons of Elpaal.

<a name="8:19">8:19</a> Jakim, Zikri, Zabdi, <a name="8:20">8:20</a> Elienai, Zillethai, Eliel, <a name="8:21">8:21</a> Adaiah, Beraiah, and Shimrath were the sons of Shimei.

<a name="8:22">8:22</a> Ishpan, Eber, Eliel, <a name="8:23">8:23</a> Abdon, Zikri, Hanan, <a name="8:24">8:24</a> Hananiah, Elam, Anthothijah, <a name="8:25">8:25</a> Iphdeiah, and Penuel were the sons of Shashak.

<a name="8:26">8:26</a> Shamsherai, Shechariah, Athaliah, <a name="8:27">8:27</a> Jaareshiah, Elijah, and Zikri were the sons of Jeroham. <a name="8:28">8:28</a> These were the family leaders listed in the genealogical records; they lived in Jerusalem.

<a name="8:29">8:29</a> The father of Gibeon lived in Gibeon; his wife’s name was Maacah. <a name="8:30">8:30</a> His firstborn son was Abdon, followed by Zur, Kish, Baal, Nadab, <a name="8:31">8:31</a> Gedor, Ahio, Zeker, and Mikloth.

<a name="8:32">8:32</a> Mikloth was the father of Shimeah. They also lived near their relatives in Jerusalem.

<a name="8:33">8:33</a> Ner was the father of Kish, and Kish was the father of Saul. Saul was the father of Jonathan, Malki-Shua, Abinadab, and Eshbaal.

<a name="8:34">8:34</a> The son of Jonathan:

Meribbaal.

Meribbaal was the father of Micah.

<a name="8:35">8:35</a> The sons of Micah:

Pithon, Melech, Tarea, and Ahaz.

<a name="8:36">8:36</a> Ahaz was the father of Jehoaddah, and Jehoaddah was the father of Alemeth, Azmaveth, and Zimri. Zimri was the father of Moza, <a name="8:37">8:37</a> and Moza was the father of Binea. His son was Raphah, whose son was Eleasah, whose son was Azel.

<a name="8:38">8:38</a> Azel had six sons: Azrikam his firstborn, followed by Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah, and Hanan. All these were the sons of Azel.

<a name="8:39">8:39</a> The sons of his brother Eshek:

Ulam was his firstborn, Jeush second, and Eliphelet third. <a name="8:40">8:40</a> The sons of Ulam were warriors who were adept archers. They had many sons and grandsons, a total of 150.

All these were the descendants of Benjamin.
