---
title: 13
parent: 1 Chronicles
other: x
---

## David’s Prestige Grows

<a name="14:1">14:1</a> King Hiram of Tyre sent messengers to David, along with cedar logs, stonemasons, and carpenters to build a palace for him. <a name="14:2">14:2</a> David realized that the Lord had established him as king over Israel and that his kingdom had become prominent for the sake of his people Israel.

<a name="14:3">14:3</a> In Jerusalem David married more wives and fathered more sons and daughters. <a name="14:4">14:4</a> These are the names of children born to him in Jerusalem: Shammua, Shobab, Nathan, Solomon, <a name="14:5">14:5</a> Ibhar, Elishua, Elpelet, <a name="14:6">14:6</a> Nogah, Nepheg, Japhia, <a name="14:7">14:7</a> Elishama, Beeliada, and Eliphelet.

<a name="14:8">14:8</a> When the Philistines heard that David had been designated king of all Israel, all the Philistines marched up to confront him. When David heard about it, he marched out against them. <a name="14:9">14:9</a> Now the Philistines had come and raided the Valley of Rephaim. <a name="14:10">14:10</a> David asked God, “Should I march up against the Philistines? Will you hand them over to me?” The Lord said to him, “March up! I will hand them over to you!” <a name="14:11">14:11</a> So they marched against Baal Perazim and David defeated them there. David said, “Using me as his instrument, God has burst out against my enemies like water bursts out.” So that place is called Baal Perazim. <a name="14:12">14:12</a> The Philistines abandoned their idols there, so David ordered that they be burned.

<a name="14:13">14:13</a> The Philistines again raided the valley. <a name="14:14">14:14</a> So David again asked God what he should do. God told him, “Don’t march up behind them; circle around them and meet them in front of the trees. <a name="14:15">14:15</a> When you hear the sound of marching in the tops of the trees, then attack. For God marches out before you to strike down the Philistine army.” <a name="14:16">14:16</a> David did just as God commanded him, and they struck down the Philistine army from Gibeon to Gezer.

<a name="14:17">14:17</a> So David became famous in all the lands; the Lord caused all the nations to fear him.
