---
title: 14
parent: 1 Chronicles
other: x
---

## David Brings the Ark to Jerusalem

<a name="15:1">15:1</a> David constructed buildings in the City of David; he then selected a place for the ark of God and pitched a tent for it. <a name="15:2">15:2</a> Then David said, “Only the Levites may carry the ark of God, for the Lord chose them to carry the ark of the Lord and to serve before him perpetually. <a name="15:3">15:3</a> David assembled all Israel at Jerusalem to bring the ark of the Lord up to the place he had prepared for it. <a name="15:4">15:4</a> David gathered together the descendants of Aaron and the Levites:

<a name="15:5">15:5</a> From the descendants of Kohath: Uriel the leader and 120 of his relatives.

<a name="15:6">15:6</a> From the descendants of Merari: Asaiah the leader and 220 of his relatives.

<a name="15:7">15:7</a> From the descendants of Gershom: Joel the leader and 130 of his relatives.

<a name="15:8">15:8</a> From the descendants of Elizaphan: Shemaiah the leader and 200 of his relatives.

<a name="15:9">15:9</a> From the descendants of Hebron: Eliel the leader and 80 of his relatives.

<a name="15:10">15:10</a> From the descendants of Uzziel: Amminadab the leader and 112 of his relatives.

<a name="15:11">15:11</a> David summoned the priests Zadok and Abiathar, along with the Levites Uriel, Asaiah, Joel, Shemaiah, Eliel, and Amminadab. <a name="15:12">15:12</a> He told them: “You are the leaders of the Levites’ families. You and your relatives must consecrate yourselves and bring the ark of the Lord God of Israel up to the place I have prepared for it. <a name="15:13">15:13</a> The first time you did not carry it; that is why the Lord God attacked us, because we sure did not ask him about the proper way to carry it.” <a name="15:14">15:14</a> The priests and Levites consecrated themselves so they could bring up the ark of the Lord God of Israel. <a name="15:15">15:15</a> The descendants of Levi carried the ark of God on their shoulders with poles, just as Moses had ordered according to the divine command.

<a name="15:16">15:16</a> David told the leaders of the Levites to appoint some of their relatives as musicians; they were to play various instruments, including stringed instruments and cymbals, and to sing loudly and joyfully. <a name="15:17">15:17</a> So the Levites appointed Heman son of Joel; one of his relatives, Asaph son of Berechiah; one of the descendants of Merari, Ethan son of Kushaiah; <a name="15:18">15:18</a> along with some of their relatives who were second in rank, including Zechariah, Jaaziel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Unni, Eliab, Benaiah, Maaseiah, Mattithiah, Eliphelehu, Mikneiah, Obed-Edom, and Jeiel, the gatekeepers.

<a name="15:19">15:19</a> The musicians Heman, Asaph, and Ethan were to sound the bronze cymbals; <a name="15:20">15:20</a> Zechariah, Aziel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Unni, Eliab, Maaseiah, and Benaiah were to play the harps according to the alamoth style; <a name="15:21">15:21</a> Mattithiah, Eliphelehu, Mikneiah, Obed-Edom, Jeiel, and Azaziah were to play the lyres according to the sheminith style, as led by the director; <a name="15:22">15:22</a> Kenaniah, the leader of the Levites, was in charge of transport, for he was well-informed on this matter; <a name="15:23">15:23</a> Berechiah and Elkanah were guardians of the ark; <a name="15:24">15:24</a> Shebaniah, Joshaphat, Nethanel, Amasai, Zechariah, Benaiah, and Eliezer the priests were to blow the trumpets before the ark of God; Obed-Edom and Jehiel were also guardians of the ark.

<a name="15:25">15:25</a> So David, the leaders of Israel, and the commanders of units of a thousand went to bring up the ark of the Lord’s covenant from the house of Obed-Edom with celebration. <a name="15:26">15:26</a> When God helped the Levites who were carrying the ark of the Lord’s covenant, they sacrificed seven bulls and seven rams. <a name="15:27">15:27</a> David was wrapped in a linen robe, as were all the Levites carrying the ark, the musicians, and Kenaniah the supervisor of transport and the musicians; David also wore a linen ephod. <a name="15:28">15:28</a> All Israel brought up the ark of the Lord’s covenant; they were shouting, blowing trumpets, sounding cymbals, and playing stringed instruments. <a name="15:29">15:29</a> As the ark of the Lord’s covenant entered the City of David, Michal, Saul’s daughter, looked out the window. When she saw King David jumping and celebrating, she despised him.
