---
title: 25
parent: 1 Chronicles
other: x
---

## Divisions of Gatekeepers

<a name="26:1">26:1</a> The divisions of the gatekeepers:

From the Korahites: Meshelemiah, son of Kore, one of the sons of Asaph.

<a name="26:2">26:2</a> Meshelemiah’s sons:

The firstborn Zechariah, the second Jediael, the third Zebadiah, the fourth Jathniel, <a name="26:3">26:3</a> the fifth Elam, the sixth Jehohanan, and the seventh Elihoenai.

<a name="26:4">26:4</a> Obed-Edom’s sons:

The firstborn Shemaiah, the second Jehozabad, the third Joah, the fourth Sakar, the fifth Nethanel, <a name="26:5">26:5</a> the sixth Ammiel, the seventh Issachar, and the eighth Peullethai. (Indeed, God blessed Obed-Edom.)

<a name="26:6">26:6</a> His son Shemaiah also had sons, who were leaders of their families, for they were highly respected. <a name="26:7">26:7</a> The sons of Shemaiah:

Othni, Rephael, Obed, and Elzabad. His relatives Elihu and Semakiah were also respected.

<a name="26:8">26:8</a> All these were the descendants of Obed-Edom. They and their sons and relatives were respected men, capable of doing their responsibilities. There were sixty-two of them related to Obed-Edom.

<a name="26:9">26:9</a> Meshelemiah had sons and relatives who were respected—eighteen in all.

<a name="26:10">26:10</a> Hosah, one of the descendants of Merari, had sons:

The firstborn Shimri (he was not actually the firstborn, but his father gave him that status), <a name="26:11">26:11</a> the second Hilkiah, the third Tebaliah, and the fourth Zechariah. All of Hosah’s sons and relatives numbered thirteen.

<a name="26:12">26:12</a> These divisions of the gatekeepers, corresponding to their leaders, had assigned responsibilities, like their relatives, as they served in the Lord’s temple.

<a name="26:13">26:13</a> They cast lots, both young and old, according to their families, to determine their gate assignments. <a name="26:14">26:14</a> The lot for the east gate went to Shelemiah. They then cast lots for his son Zechariah, a wise adviser, and the lot for the north gate went to him. <a name="26:15">26:15</a> Obed-Edom was assigned the south gate, and his sons were assigned the storehouses. <a name="26:16">26:16</a> Shuppim and Hosah were assigned the west gate, along with the Shalleketh gate on the upper road. One guard was adjacent to another. <a name="26:17">26:17</a> Each day there were six Levites posted on the east, four on the north, and four on the south. At the storehouses they were posted in pairs. <a name="26:18">26:18</a> At the court on the west there were four posted on the road and two at the court. <a name="26:19">26:19</a> These were the divisions of the gatekeepers who were descendants of Korah and Merari.

## Supervisors of the Storehouses

<a name="26:20">26:20</a> Their fellow Levites were in charge of the storehouses in God’s temple and the storehouses containing consecrated items. <a name="26:21">26:21</a> The descendants of Ladan, who were descended from Gershon through Ladan and were leaders of the families of Ladan the Gershonite, included Jehieli, <a name="26:22">26:22</a> and the sons of Jehieli, Zetham and his brother Joel. They were in charge of the storehouses in the Lord’s temple.

<a name="26:23">26:23</a> As for the Amramites, Izharites, Hebronites, and Uzzielites:

<a name="26:24">26:24</a> Shebuel son of Gershom, the son of Moses, was the supervisor of the storehouses. <a name="26:25">26:25</a> His relatives through Eliezer included: Rehabiah his son, Jeshaiah his son, Joram his son, Zikri his son, and Shelomith his son. <a name="26:26">26:26</a> Shelomith and his relatives were in charge of all the storehouses containing the consecrated items dedicated by King David, the family leaders who led units of a thousand and a hundred, and the army officers. <a name="26:27">26:27</a> They had dedicated some of the plunder taken in battles to be used for repairs on the Lord’s temple. <a name="26:28">26:28</a> They were also in charge of everything dedicated by Samuel the prophet, Saul son of Kish, Abner son of Ner, and Joab son of Zeruiah; Shelomith and his relatives were in charge of everything that had been dedicated.

<a name="26:29">26:29</a> As for the Izharites: Kenaniah and his sons were given responsibilities outside the temple as officers and judges over Israel.

<a name="26:30">26:30</a> As for the Hebronites: Hashabiah and his relatives, seventeen hundred respected men, were assigned responsibilities in Israel west of the Jordan; they did the Lord’s work and the king’s service.

<a name="26:31">26:31</a> As for the Hebronites: Jeriah was the leader of the Hebronites according to the genealogical records. In the fortieth year of David’s reign, they examined the records and discovered there were highly respected men in Jazer in Gilead. <a name="26:32">26:32</a> Jeriah had twenty-seven hundred relatives who were respected family leaders. King David placed them in charge of the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh; they took care of all matters pertaining to God and the king.
