---
title: 01
parent: Lamentations
other: x
---

## א (Alef)

<a name="1:1">1:1</a> Alas!
The city once full of people
now sits all alone!
She who was once prominent among the nations
has become a widow!
The princess who once ruled over the provinces
has become a forced laborer!

## ב (Bet)

<a name="1:2">1:2</a> She weeps bitterly at night;
tears stream down her cheeks.
There is no one to comfort her
among all her former lovers.
All her friends have dealt treacherously with her;
they have become her enemies.

## ג (Gimel)

<a name="1:3">1:3</a> The people of Judah have gone into exile under affliction
and under harsh oppression.
They now live in other nations,
but find no rest.
All who pursued them have overtaken them
in narrow straits.

## ד (Dalet)

<a name="1:4">1:4</a> The roads leading to Zion are in mourning,
because no one travels down their paths to celebrate the festivals.
All her city gates are deserted;
her priests groan in grief.
Her virgins are filled with sorrow;
Jerusalem is in bitter anguish!

## ה (He)

<a name="1:5">1:5</a> Her foes subjugated her;
her enemies plundered her possessions.
For the Lord afflicted her
because of her many acts of rebellion.
Her children were driven away
as prisoners before the enemy.

## ו (Vav)

<a name="1:6">1:6</a> Everything in which she had gloried
has been taken away from Zion.
Her leaders were like deer
who could not find any hiding place;
they were too exhausted to flee
from the hunter.

## ז (Zayin)

<a name="1:7">1:7</a> Jerusalem remembers,
when she became a poor homeless person,
all the treasures — possessions that
belonged to her in days of old.
When her people fell into the grasp of the enemy,
none of her allies came to her rescue.
Her enemies gloat over her;
they laughed contemptuously at her downfall.

## ח (Khet)

<a name="1:8">1:8</a> Jerusalem has committed heinous sin;
therefore, she has become an object of scorn.
All who once respected her now despise her,
because they have seen her nakedness.
She herself groans aloud
and turns away in shame.

## ט (Tet)

<a name="1:9">1:9</a> Her menstrual filth has soiled her own clothing;
she did not consider the consequences of her sin.
Her demise occurred in an astonishing way,
and there was no one to comfort her.
She cried, “Look, O Lord, on my affliction,
because my enemy boasts!”

## י (Yod)

<a name="1:10">1:10</a> The enemy seized
all her valuable possessions.
She watched in horror as Gentiles invaded her holy temple,
whom you had forbidden:
“They may not enter your assembly place.”

## כ (Kaf)

<a name="1:11">1:11</a> All her former inhabitants groan
as they search for a morsel of bread.
They are forced to sell their prized possessions
just to purchase enough food
to keep themselves alive.

### Jerusalem Speaks:

Look, O Lord!
Consider that I have become worthless!

## ל (Lamed)

<a name="1:12">1:12</a> O you who pass by on the road,
is it nothing to you?
Consider and see:
Is there any pain like my pain?
The Lord brought it on me;
he inflicted it on me when he burned with anger.

## מ (Mem)

<a name="1:13">1:13</a> He sent down fierce fire into my bones,
and it prevailed against them.
He stretched a trapper’s net to ensnare my feet;
he made me turn back.
He made me desolate,
sick all day long.

## נ (Nun)

<a name="1:14">1:14</a> My sins are bound around my neck like a yoke,
they are lashed tight together by his hand.
He has placed his yoke on my neck;
he has made me weak.
The Lord has handed me over
to those whom I am powerless to resist.

## ס (Samek)

<a name="1:15">1:15</a> The Lord has hurled all my valiant warriors
out of my midst.
He summoned a legal assembly against me
to crush my young warriors.
As in a wine press, the Lord has trampled down
the virgin daughter of Judah.

## ע (Ayin)

<a name="1:16">1:16</a> I weep on account of these things;
my eyes flow with tears.
For there is no one to comfort me anywhere near,
no one who could encourage me.
My inhabitants are desolated
because the enemy has prevailed.

## פ (Pe)

### The Prophet Speaks:

<a name="1:17">1:17</a> Zion spread out her hands,
but there is no one to comfort her.
The Lord has issued a decree against Jacob:
The nations that surround him will become his enemies.
They treat Jerusalem
like filthy garbage in their midst.

### Jerusalem Speaks:

## צ (Tsade)

<a name="1:18">1:18</a> The Lord is right to judge me!
For I rebelled against his commands.
Listen, all you peoples,
and behold my suffering!
My young men and women
have been taken prisoner into exile.

## ק (Qof)

<a name="1:19">1:19</a> I called for my lovers,
but they deceived me.
My priests and my elders died of hunger in the city,
while searching for food that might have kept them alive.

## ר (Resh)

<a name="1:20">1:20</a> Look, O Lord, because I am in distress,
my stomach is in knots!
My heart is turning over inside me,
because I know how terribly rebellious I had been!
In the street the sword bereaves a mother of her children;
the rest die of hunger inside their homes.

## ש (Sin/Shin)

<a name="1:21">1:21</a> They have heard that I groan,
yet there is no one to comfort me.
All my enemies have heard of my trouble;
they are glad that you have brought it about.
May you bring about the time of judgment that you promised,
so that they may be judged like me!

## ת (Tav)

<a name="1:22">1:22</a> Let all their wickedness come before you;
may you deal with them
just as you have dealt with me,
because of all my acts of rebellion.
For my groans are many,
and my heart is full of sorrow.