---
title: 02
parent: Lamentations
other: x
---

## א (Alef)

### The Prophet Speaks:

<a name="2:1">2:1</a> Alas!
The Lord has covered Zion
with the cloud of his anger!
He has thrown down the splendor of Israel
from heaven to earth;
he did not protect the temple
when he displayed his anger.

## ב (Bet)

<a name="2:2">2:2</a> The Lord has destroyed all the homes of Jacob’s descendants;
and he has shown no mercy.
In his wrath he has torn down
every fortified city in Judah.
He has toppled the kingdom and its rulers,
putting them to shame.

## ג (Gimel)

<a name="2:3">2:3</a> In his fierce anger he destroyed
the whole army of Israel.
He withdrew his protection
when the advancing enemy army attacked.
He was like a raging fire burning up the land of Jacob’s descendants;
it consumed everything around it.

## ד (Dalet)

<a name="2:4">2:4</a> Like an enemy he strung his archer’s bow;
his right hand was ready to shoot.
Like a foe he has slain
all our vigorous young men;
he has poured out his wrath like fire
on the tents of Zion.

## ה (He)

<a name="2:5">2:5</a> The Lord was like an enemy;
he has devastated Israel.
He has devastated all its palaces
and has destroyed its fortified cities.
He made everyone in Judah
mourn and lament.

## ו (Vav)

<a name="2:6">2:6</a> He has laid waste his temple like a vineyard;
he has destroyed his appointed meeting place.
The Lord has made it impossible for the city of Zion
to celebrate the appointed festivals and Sabbaths.
In his fierce anger he has rejected
Judah’s king and priests.

## ז (Zayin)

<a name="2:7">2:7</a> The Lord has rejected his altar
and has abandoned his temple.
He allowed the enemy to capture
the fortified palaces in Jerusalem;
the enemy shouted in celebration in the temple of the Lord,
like on the day appointed to celebrate a religious feast.

## ח (Khet)

<a name="2:8">2:8</a> The Lord was determined to tear down
the walls around the city of Zion.
He marked out the walls of Jerusalem for destruction,
and he did not relent until they were destroyed.
He made the ramparts and fortified walls lament;
both of them mourned their destruction.

## ט (Tet)

<a name="2:9">2:9</a> The city gates have fallen down to the ground;
the bars that lock the gates have been smashed to pieces.
Jerusalem’s king and princes were taken into exile in other countries;
there is no longer any guidance available.
As for her prophets,
they can no longer obtain a vision from the Lord.

## י (Yod)

<a name="2:10">2:10</a> The elders of the city of Zion
sit on the ground in silence;
they have thrown ashes on their heads;
they clothed themselves with sackcloth.
The young single women of Jerusalem
stare down at the ground in grief.

## כ (Kaf)

<a name="2:11">2:11</a> My eyes are worn out because of all my tears;
my stomach is in knots.
My bile is poured out on the ground,
because of the destruction of my beloved Jerusalem,
because infants and newborn babies faint from hunger
in the streets of the city.

## ל (Lamed)

<a name="2:12">2:12</a> Children cry out to their mothers
for food and drink.
Then they lose consciousness like a wounded warrior
in the streets of the city.
Then they die slowly
in the arms of their mothers.

## מ (Mem)

<a name="2:13">2:13</a> With what can I equate you?
To what can I compare you, O Jerusalem?
To what can I liken you,
so that I might comfort you, O City of Zion?
Your wound is as deep as the sea;
no one can heal you!

## נ (Nun)

<a name="2:14">2:14</a> The visions that your prophets proclaimed to you
were empty lies;
they failed to expose your sin,
thus delivering you from exile.
They proclaimed oracles to you
that were false deceptions.

## ס (Samek)

<a name="2:15">2:15</a> All who pass by you on the road
clap their hands to mock you;
they sneer and shake their heads
at Jerusalem:
“Ha! This is the city whose former inhabitants said,
‘It is perfect in beauty,
the source of joy to the whole earth!’”

## פ (Pe)

<a name="2:16">2:16</a> All your enemies
jeer at you.
They sneer and gnash their teeth;
they say, “We have destroyed her!
Ha! We have waited a long time for this day!
We have actually lived to see it!”

## ע (Ayin)

<a name="2:17">2:17</a> The Lord has done what he planned;
he has fulfilled his promise
which he threatened to do long ago:
He has overthrown you without mercy.
He has allowed the enemy to gloat over you;
he has enabled your adversaries to boast about their military might.

## צ (Tsade)

<a name="2:18">2:18</a> Cry out earnestly to the Lord,
O Wall of Zion!
Let your tears flow like a river
from dawn to dusk!
Do not allow yourself any rest;
do not let your tears stop!

## ק (Qof)

<a name="2:19">2:19</a> Get up! Cry out for help in the night
at the beginning of the night watches!
Pour out your laments like water
before the presence of the Lord!
Lift up your hands to him
on behalf of the lives of your children,
who are dying from hunger
at every street corner.

## ר (Resh)

### Jerusalem Speaks:

<a name="2:20">2:20</a> O Lord, think about it!
Whom have you ever treated like this?
Should women cannibalize the children they have borne,
perfectly healthy newborn infants?
Should priest and prophet be killed
in the sanctuary of the Lord?

## ש (Sin/Shin)

<a name="2:21">2:21</a> The young and old lie dead together
in the dust of the streets;
the young men and single young women of Jerusalem
have fallen by the sword.
You killed them when you were angry;
you slaughtered them without pity.

## ת (Tav)

<a name="2:22">2:22</a> You invited, as though on an appointed festival day,
enemies to terrify me on every side.
When the Lord became angry,
no one escaped or survived.
The perfectly healthy children whom I bore and raised,
my enemy has destroyed.