---
title: 04
parent: Lamentations
other: x
---

## א (Alef)

### The Prophet Speaks:

<a name="4:1">4:1</a> Alas!
The gold has lost its luster;
the solid gold objects have lost their shine!
The sacred gems are scattered
at every street corner.

## ב (Bet)

<a name="4:2">4:2</a> The precious sons of Zion
were once worth their weight in gold.
Alas! Now they are no more valued than broken clay potsherds
made by a potter.

## ג (Gimel)

<a name="4:3">4:3</a> Even the jackals nurse their young
at their breast;
but my people have become cruel
like ostriches in the desert.

## ד (Dalet)

<a name="4:4">4:4</a> The infant’s tongue sticks to the roof of its mouth
due to thirst;
Little children beg for food,
but no one has even any bread to give to them.

## ה (He)

<a name="4:5">4:5</a> Those who once feasted on delicacies
are now starving to death in the streets.
Those who grew up wearing expensive clothes
are now dying on the ash heaps.

## ו (Vav)

<a name="4:6">4:6</a> The punishment of my people
is greater than the punishment of Sodom,
which was overthrown in a moment
and no one lifted a hand to help her.

## ז (Zayin)

<a name="4:7">4:7</a> Her princes were brighter than snow,
whiter than milk;
their bodies more ruddy than rubies;
their appearance was like sapphires.

## ח (Khet)

<a name="4:8">4:8</a> Now their appearance is darker than soot;
no one even recognizes who they are in the streets.
Their skin has shriveled on their bones;
it has become dry like wood.

## ט (Tet)

<a name="4:9">4:9</a> Those who were killed by the sword are better off
than those who die of hunger;
they waste away,
struck down by lack of food.

## י (Yod)

<a name="4:10">4:10</a> With their own hands, tenderhearted women
have cooked their own children,
who became their food
when my people were destroyed.

## כ (Kaf)

<a name="4:11">4:11</a> The Lord has fully vented his wrath;
he has poured out his fierce anger.
He kindled a fire in Zion
which destroyed the very foundation stones of the city walls.

## ל (Lamed)

<a name="4:12">4:12</a> Neither the kings of the foreign nations
nor the people of the lands ever thought it possible
that enemy or foe could ever conquer
the city of Jerusalem.

## מ (Mem)

<a name="4:13">4:13</a> But it happened because of the sins of her prophets
and the iniquities of her priests,
who unjustly killed the righteous
within the city.

## נ (Nun)

<a name="4:14">4:14</a> Now they wander blindly through the streets,
ritually defiled with the blood they shed,
so that no one dares
to touch their garments.

## ס (Samek)

<a name="4:15">4:15</a> Men cry to them, “Stay away! You are unclean!”
“Stay away! Go away! Don’t touch us!”
So they have fled and wander about;
but the nations say, “They may not stay with us here any longer.”

## פ (Pe)

<a name="4:16">4:16</a> The Lord himself has scattered them;
he no longer watches over them.
The priests will not be shown consideration,
the elders will not be spared.

## ע (Ayin)

### The People of Jerusalem Lament:

<a name="4:17">4:17</a> Our eyes continually failed us,
as we looked in vain for help.
From our watchtowers we watched expectantly
for a nation that could not rescue us.

## צ (Tsade)

<a name="4:18">4:18</a> Our enemies hunted us down at every step;
we could not even walk about publicly in our streets.
Our end drew near, our days were numbered,
for our end had come!

## ק (Qof)

<a name="4:19">4:19</a> Those who pursued us were swifter
than vultures in the sky.
They chased us over the mountains;
they set an ambush for us in the wilderness.

## ר (Resh)

<a name="4:20">4:20</a> Our very life breath — the king anointed by the Lord — 
was caught in their traps.
We thought that under his protection
we would survive among the nations.

## ש (Sin/Shin)

### The Prophet Speaks:

<a name="4:21">4:21</a> Rejoice and be glad for now, O people of Edom,
you who reside in the land of Uz.
But the wine cup of judgment will be passed to you also;
you will become drunk and strip yourself naked.

## ת (Tav)

<a name="4:22">4:22</a> O people of Zion, your punishment will eventually come to an end;
he will not prolong your exile.
But, O people of Edom, he will punish your sin
and reveal your treachery!