---
title: 04
parent: 1 Kings
other: x
---

## Solomon’s Royal Court and Administrators

<a name="4:1">4:1</a> King Solomon ruled over all Israel. <a name="4:2">4:2</a> These were his officials:

Azariah son of Zadok was the priest.

<a name="4:3">4:3</a> Elihoreph and Ahijah, the sons of Shisha, were scribes.

Jehoshaphat son of Ahilud was the secretary.

<a name="4:4">4:4</a> Benaiah son of Jehoiada was commander of the army.

Zadok and Abiathar were priests.

<a name="4:5">4:5</a> Azariah son of Nathan was supervisor of the governors.

Zabud son of Nathan was a priest and adviser to the king.

<a name="4:6">4:6</a> Ahishar was supervisor of the palace.

Adoniram son of Abda was supervisor of the work crews.

<a name="4:7">4:7</a> Solomon had twelve governors appointed throughout Israel who acquired supplies for the king and his palace. Each was responsible for one month in the year. <a name="4:8">4:8</a> These were their names:

Ben-Hur was in charge of the hill country of Ephraim.

<a name="4:9">4:9</a> Ben-Deker was in charge of Makaz, Shaalbim, Beth Shemesh, and Elon Beth Hanan.

<a name="4:10">4:10</a> Ben-Hesed was in charge of Arubboth; he controlled Socoh and all the territory of Hepher.

<a name="4:11">4:11</a> Ben-Abinadab was in charge of Naphath Dor. (He was married to Solomon’s daughter Taphath.)

<a name="4:12">4:12</a> Baana son of Ahilud was in charge of Taanach and Megiddo, as well as all of Beth Shan next to Zarethan below Jezreel, from Beth Shan to Abel Meholah and on past Jokmeam.

<a name="4:13">4:13</a> Ben-Geber was in charge of Ramoth Gilead; he controlled the tent villages of Jair son of Manasseh in Gilead, as well as the region of Argob in Bashan, including sixty large walled cities with bronze bars locking their gates.

<a name="4:14">4:14</a> Ahinadab son of Iddo was in charge of Mahanaim.

<a name="4:15">4:15</a> Ahimaaz was in charge of Naphtali. (He married Solomon’s daughter Basemath.)

<a name="4:16">4:16</a> Baana son of Hushai was in charge of Asher and Aloth.

<a name="4:17">4:17</a> Jehoshaphat son of Paruah was in charge of Issachar.

<a name="4:18">4:18</a> Shimei son of Ela was in charge of Benjamin.

<a name="4:19">4:19</a> Geber son of Uri was in charge of the land of Gilead (the territory which had belonged to King Sihon of the Amorites and to King Og of Bashan). He was sole governor of the area.

## Solomon’s Wealth and Fame

<a name="4:20">4:20</a> The people of Judah and Israel were as innumerable as the sand on the seashore; they had plenty to eat and drink and were happy. <a name="4:21">4:21</a> Solomon ruled all the kingdoms from the Euphrates River to the land of the Philistines, as far as the border of Egypt. These kingdoms paid tribute as Solomon’s subjects throughout his lifetime. <a name="4:22">4:22</a> Each day Solomon’s royal court consumed thirty cors of finely milled flour, sixty cors of cereal, <a name="4:23">4:23</a> ten calves fattened in the stall, twenty calves from the pasture, and a hundred sheep, not to mention rams, gazelles, deer, and well-fed birds. <a name="4:24">4:24</a> His royal court was so large because he ruled over all the kingdoms west of the Euphrates River from Tiphsah to Gaza; he was at peace with all his neighbors. <a name="4:25">4:25</a> All the people of Judah and Israel had security; everyone from Dan to Beer Sheba enjoyed the produce of their vines and fig trees throughout Solomon’s lifetime. <a name="4:26">4:26</a> Solomon had four thousand stalls for his chariot horses and twelve thousand horses. <a name="4:27">4:27</a> The governors acquired supplies for King Solomon and all who ate in his royal palace. Each was responsible for one month in the year; they made sure nothing was lacking. <a name="4:28">4:28</a> Each one also brought to the assigned location his quota of barley and straw for the various horses.

<a name="4:29">4:29</a> God gave Solomon wisdom and very great discernment; the breadth of his understanding was as infinite as the sand on the seashore. <a name="4:30">4:30</a> Solomon was wiser than all the men of the east and all the sages of Egypt. <a name="4:31">4:31</a> He was wiser than any man, including Ethan the Ezrahite or Heman, Calcol, and Darda, the sons of Mahol. He was famous in all the neighboring nations. <a name="4:32">4:32</a> He composed three thousand proverbs and a thousand and five songs. <a name="4:33">4:33</a> He produced manuals on botany, describing every kind of plant, from the cedars of Lebanon to the hyssop that grows on walls. He also produced manuals on biology, describing animals, birds, insects, and fish. <a name="4:34">4:34</a> People from all nations came to hear Solomon’s display of wisdom; they came from all the kings of the earth who heard of his wisdom.

## Solomon Gathers Building Materials for the Temple

<a name="5:1">5:1</a> King Hiram of Tyre sent messengers to Solomon when he heard that he had been anointed king in his father’s place. (Hiram had always been an ally of David.) <a name="5:2">5:2</a> Solomon then sent this message to Hiram: <a name="5:3">5:3</a> “You know that my father David was unable to build a temple to honor the Lord his God, for he was busy fighting battles on all fronts while the Lord subdued his enemies. <a name="5:4">5:4</a> But now the Lord my God has made me secure on all fronts; there is no adversary or dangerous threat. <a name="5:5">5:5</a> So I have decided to build a temple to honor the Lord my God, as the Lord instructed my father David, ‘Your son, whom I will put on your throne in your place, is the one who will build a temple to honor me.’ <a name="5:6">5:6</a> So now order some cedars of Lebanon to be cut for me. My servants will work with your servants. I will pay your servants whatever you say is appropriate, for you know that we have no one among us who knows how to cut down trees like the Sidonians.”

<a name="5:7">5:7</a> When Hiram heard Solomon’s message, he was very happy. He said, “The Lord is worthy of praise today because he has given David a wise son to rule over this great nation.” <a name="5:8">5:8</a> Hiram then sent this message to Solomon: “I received the message you sent to me. I will give you all the cedars and evergreens you need. <a name="5:9">5:9</a> My servants will bring the timber down from Lebanon to the sea. I will send it by sea in raft-like bundles to the place you designate. There I will separate the logs and you can carry them away. In exchange you will supply the food I need for my royal court.”

<a name="5:10">5:10</a> So Hiram supplied the cedars and evergreens Solomon needed, <a name="5:11">5:11</a> and Solomon supplied Hiram annually with twenty thousand cors of wheat as provision for his royal court, as well as twenty thousand baths of pure olive oil. <a name="5:12">5:12</a> So the Lord gave Solomon wisdom, as he had promised him. And Hiram and Solomon were at peace and made a treaty.

<a name="5:13">5:13</a> King Solomon conscripted work crews from throughout Israel, thirty thousand men in all. <a name="5:14">5:14</a> He sent them to Lebanon in shifts of ten thousand men per month. They worked in Lebanon for one month, and then spent two months at home. Adoniram was supervisor of the work crews. <a name="5:15">5:15</a> Solomon also had seventy thousand common laborers and eighty thousand stonemasons in the hills, <a name="5:16">5:16</a> besides thirty-three hundred officials who supervised the workers. <a name="5:17">5:17</a> By royal order they supplied large valuable stones in order to build the temple’s foundation with chiseled stone. <a name="5:18">5:18</a> Solomon’s and Hiram’s construction workers, along with men from Byblos, did the chiseling and prepared the wood and stones for the building of the temple.
