---
title: 11
parent: Hosea
other: x
---

## Reversal of the Exodus: Return to Egypt and Exile in Assyria

<a name="11:1">11:1</a> When Israel was a young man, I loved him like a son,
and I summoned my son out of Egypt.

<a name="11:2">11:2</a> But the more I summoned them,
the farther they departed from me.
They sacrificed to the Baal idols
and burned incense to images.

<a name="11:3">11:3</a> Yet it was I who led Ephraim,
I took them by the arm;
but they did not acknowledge
that I had healed them.

<a name="11:4">11:4</a> I led them with leather cords,
with leather ropes;
I lifted the yoke from their neck,
and gently fed them.

<a name="11:5">11:5</a> They will return to Egypt!
Assyria will rule over them
because they refuse to repent!

<a name="11:6">11:6</a> A sword will flash in their cities,
it will destroy the bars of their city gates,
and will devour them in their fortresses.

<a name="11:7">11:7</a> My people are obsessed with turning away from me;
they call to Baal, but he will never exalt them!

## The Divine Dilemma: Judgment or Mercy?

<a name="11:8">11:8</a> How can I give you up, O Ephraim?
How can I surrender you, O Israel?
How can I treat you like Admah?
How can I make you like Zeboiim?
I have had a change of heart!
All my tender compassions are aroused!

<a name="11:9">11:9</a> I cannot carry out my fierce anger!
I cannot totally destroy Ephraim!
Because I am God, and not man — the Holy One among you — 
I will not come in wrath!

## God Will Restore the Exiles to Israel

<a name="11:10">11:10</a> He will roar like a lion,
and they will follow the Lord;
when he roars,
his children will come trembling from the west.

<a name="11:11">11:11</a> They will return in fear and trembling
like birds from Egypt,
like doves from Assyria,
and I will settle them in their homes,” declares the Lord.

## God’s Lawsuit against Israel: Breach of Covenant

<a name="11:12">11:12</a> Ephraim has surrounded me with lies;
the house of Israel has surrounded me with deceit.
But Judah still roams about with God;
he remains faithful to the Holy One.
