---
title: 02
parent: Ezekiel
other: x
---

## Ezekiel’s Commission

<a name="2:1">2:1</a> He said to me, “Son of man, stand on your feet and I will speak with you.” <a name="2:2">2:2</a> As he spoke to me, a wind came into me and stood me on my feet, and I heard the one speaking to me.

<a name="2:3">2:3</a> He said to me, “Son of man, I am sending you to the people of Israel, to a rebellious nation that has rebelled against me; both they and their fathers have sinned against me to this very day. <a name="2:4">2:4</a> The people to whom I am sending you are obstinate and hard-hearted, and you must say to them, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says.’ <a name="2:5">2:5</a> And as for them, whether they pay attention or not — for they are a rebellious house — they will know that a prophet has been among them. <a name="2:6">2:6</a> But you, son of man, do not fear them, and do not fear their words, even though briers and thorns surround you and you live among scorpions. Do not fear their words and do not be terrified of the looks they give you, for they are a rebellious house! <a name="2:7">2:7</a> You must speak my words to them whether they pay attention or not, for they are rebellious. <a name="2:8">2:8</a> As for you, son of man, hear what I say to you: Do not rebel like that rebellious house! Open your mouth and eat what I am giving you.”

<a name="2:9">2:9</a> Then I saw a hand stretched out to me, and in it was a written scroll. <a name="2:10">2:10</a> He unrolled it before me, and it had writing on the front and back; written on it were lamentation, mourning and woe.
