---
title: 12
parent: Ezekiel
other: x
---

## Previewing the Exile

<a name="12:1">12:1</a> The word of the Lord came to me: <a name="12:2">12:2</a> “Son of man, you are living in the midst of a rebellious people. They have eyes to see but do not see, and ears to hear but do not hear, because they are a rebellious people.

<a name="12:3">12:3</a> “Therefore, son of man, pack up your belongings as if you were going into exile. During the day, while they are watching, pretend to go into exile. Go from where you live to another place. Perhaps they will get the message, although they are a rebellious people. <a name="12:4">12:4</a> During the day, while they are watching, carry out the things you packed as if going into exile. Go out at evening, while they are watching, as though you were going into exile. <a name="12:5">12:5</a> Dig a hole in the wall while they are watching and carry your belongings out through it. <a name="12:6">12:6</a> While they are watching, put your baggage on your shoulder and carry it out in the dark. You must cover your face so that you cannot see the land, because I have made you an object lesson to the house of Israel.”

<a name="12:7">12:7</a> So I did just as I was commanded. During the day I carried out my belongings packed to go into exile, and at evening I dug a hole through the wall with my hands. I went out in the darkness, carrying my baggage on my shoulder while they watched.

<a name="12:8">12:8</a> The word of the Lord came to me in the morning: <a name="12:9">12:9</a> “Son of man, has not the house of Israel, that rebellious people, said to you, ‘What are you doing?’ <a name="12:10">12:10</a> Say to them, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: This prophetic oracle concerns the prince in Jerusalem and all the house of Israel within it.’ <a name="12:11">12:11</a> Say, ‘I am an object lesson for you. Just as I have done, it will be done to them; they will go into exile and captivity.’

<a name="12:12">12:12</a> “The prince who is among them will carry his belongings on his shoulder in darkness, and will go out. They will dig a hole in the wall for him to leave through. He will cover his face so that he cannot see the land with his eyes. <a name="12:13">12:13</a> But I will throw my net over him, and he will be captured in my snare. I will bring him to Babylon, the land of the Chaldeans (but he will not see it), and there he will die. <a name="12:14">12:14</a> All his retinue—his attendants and his troops—I will scatter to every wind; I will chase them with a drawn sword.

<a name="12:15">12:15</a> “And when I scatter them among the nations, and disperse them among foreign countries, they will know that I am the Lord. <a name="12:16">12:16</a> But I will let a small number of them survive the sword, famine, and pestilence, so that they can confess all their abominable practices to the nations where they go. Then they will know that I am the Lord.”

<a name="12:17">12:17</a> The word of the Lord came to me: <a name="12:18">12:18</a> “Son of man, tremble while you eat your bread, and shake with anxiety while you drink your water. <a name="12:19">12:19</a> Then say to the people of the land, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says about the inhabitants of Jerusalem and of the land of Israel: They will eat their bread with anxiety and drink their water in despair, for their land will be stripped bare of all it contains because of the violence of all who live in it. <a name="12:20">12:20</a> The inhabited towns will be left in ruins and the land will be devastated. Then you will know that I am the Lord.’”

<a name="12:21">12:21</a> The word of the Lord came to me: <a name="12:22">12:22</a> “Son of man, what is this proverb you have in the land of Israel, ‘The days pass slowly, and every vision comes to nothing’? <a name="12:23">12:23</a> Therefore tell them, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: I will put an end to this proverb; they will not rea it in Israel any longer.’ But say to them, ‘The days are at hand when every vision will be fulfilled. <a name="12:24">12:24</a> For there will no longer be any false visions or flattering omens among the people of Israel. <a name="12:25">12:25</a> For I—the Lord—will speak whatever word I want to speak, and it will be accomplished. It will not be delayed any longer; for in your days, you rebellious people, I will speak the word and will bring it to pass, declares the Sovereign Lord.’”

<a name="12:26">12:26</a> The word of the Lord came to me: <a name="12:27">12:27</a> “Son of man, the house of Israel is saying, ‘The vision that he sees is a long time from now; he is prophesying about the distant future.’ <a name="12:28">12:28</a> Therefore say to them, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: None of my words will be delayed any longer! The word I speak will come to pass, declares the Sovereign Lord.’”
