---
title: 13
parent: Ezekiel
other: x
---

## False Prophets Denounced

<a name="13:1">13:1</a> Then the word of the Lord came to me: <a name="13:2">13:2</a> “Son of man, prophesy against the prophets of Israel who are now prophesying. Say to the prophets who prophesy from their own imagination: ‘Hear the word of the Lord! <a name="13:3">13:3</a> This is what the Sovereign Lord says: Woe to the foolish prophets who follow their own spirit and have seen nothing at all! <a name="13:4">13:4</a> Your prophets have become like jackals among the ruins, O Israel. <a name="13:5">13:5</a> You have not gone up in the breaks in the wall, nor repaired a wall for the house of Israel so it will stand strong in the battle on the day of the Lord. <a name="13:6">13:6</a> Instead, their visions are false and their omens are a lie. They say, “the Lord declares,” though the Lord has not sent them; yet they expect the fulfillment of their word. <a name="13:7">13:7</a> Have you not seen a false vision and announced a lying omen when you say, “the Lord declares,” although I never spoke a word?

<a name="13:8">13:8</a> “‘Therefore, this is what the Sovereign Lord says: Because you have spoken false words and seen lying visions, I am against you, declares the Sovereign Lord. <a name="13:9">13:9</a> My hand will be against the prophets who see false visions and announce lying omens. They will not be included in the council of my people, nor be written in the registry of the house of Israel, nor enter the land of Israel. Then you will know that I am the Sovereign Lord.

<a name="13:10">13:10</a> “‘This is because they have led my people astray saying, “Peace,” when there is no peace. When anyone builds a wall they coat it with whitewash. <a name="13:11">13:11</a> Tell the ones who coat it with whitewash that it will fall. There will be a deluge of rain, hailstones will fall, and a violent wind will break out. <a name="13:12">13:12</a> When the wall has collapsed, people will ask you, “Where is the whitewash you coated it with?”

<a name="13:13">13:13</a> “‘Therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord says: In my rage I will make a violent wind break out. In my anger there will be a deluge of rain, and hailstones in destructive fury. <a name="13:14">13:14</a> I will break down the wall you coated with whitewash, and level it to the ground so that its foundation is exposed. When it falls you will be destroyed beneath it, and you will know that I am the Lord. <a name="13:15">13:15</a> I will vent my rage against the wall, and against those who coated it with whitewash. Then I will say to you, “The wall is no more and those who whitewashed it are no more — <a name="13:16">13:16</a> those prophets of Israel who prophesied about Jerusalem and saw visions of peace for it, when there was no peace,” declares the Sovereign Lord.’

<a name="13:17">13:17</a> “As for you, son of man, turn toward the daughters of your people who are prophesying from their own imagination. Prophesy against them <a name="13:18">13:18</a> and say ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: Woe to those who sew bands on all their wrists and make veils for heads of every size to entrap people! Will you entrap my people, yet preserve your own lives? <a name="13:19">13:19</a> You have profaned me among my people for handfuls of barley and scraps of bread. By your lies to my people, who listen to lies, you have put to death people who should not die and kept alive those who should not live.

<a name="13:20">13:20</a> “‘Therefore, this is what the Sovereign Lord says: I am against your wristbands with which you entrap people like birds. I will tear them from your arms and will free the people you hunt like birds. <a name="13:21">13:21</a> I will tear off your veils and rescue my people from your power; they will no longer be prey in your hands. Then you will know that I am the Lord. <a name="13:22">13:22</a> This is because you have disheartened the righteous person with lies (although I have not disheartened him), and because you have encouraged the wicked person not to turn from his evil conduct and preserve his life. <a name="13:23">13:23</a> Therefore you will no longer see false visions and practice divination. I will rescue my people from your power, and you will know that I am the Lord.’”
