---
title: 27
parent: Ezekiel
other: x
---

## A Lament for Tyre

<a name="27:1">27:1</a> The word of the Lord came to me: <a name="27:2">27:2</a> “You, son of man, sing a lament for Tyre. <a name="27:3">27:3</a> Say to Tyre, who sits at the entrance of the sea, merchant to the peoples on many coasts, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says:

> “‘O Tyre, you have said, “I am perfect in beauty.”
> <a name="27:4">27:4</a> Your borders are in the heart of the seas;
> your builders have perfected your beauty.
> <a name="27:5">27:5</a> They have made all your planks out of fir trees from Senir;
> they took a cedar from Lebanon to make a mast for you.
> <a name="27:6">27:6</a> They made your oars from oaks of Bashan;
> they made your deck of boxwood, with ivory from the coastlands of Cyprus.
> <a name="27:7">27:7</a> Fine embroidered linen from Egypt was used for your sail,
> which served as your banner;
> blue and purple from the coastlands of Elishah was used for your deck’s awning.
> <a name="27:8">27:8</a> The residents of Sidon and Arvad were your rowers;
> your skilled men, O Tyre, were your captains.
> <a name="27:9">27:9</a> The elders of Gebal and her skilled men were within you, plugging your holes;
> all the ships of the sea and their mariners were within you to trade for your merchandise.
> <a name="27:10">27:10</a> Persia, Lud, and Put contributed to your army — they provided your men of war;
> they hung shield and helmet on you; they gave you your splendor.
> <a name="27:11">27:11</a> The sons of Arvad joined your army on your walls all around you,
> and the Gammadites were in your towers.
> They hung their weapons all around your walls;
> they perfected your beauty.

<a name="27:12">27:12</a> “‘Tarshish engaged in trade with you because of your abundant wealth; they exchanged silver, iron, tin, and lead for your products. <a name="27:13">27:13</a> Javan, Tubal, and Meshech traded with you; they exchanged slaves and bronze items for your merchandise. <a name="27:14">27:14</a> Beth-gormah exchanged horses, war horses, and mules for your goods. <a name="27:15">27:15</a> The sons of Dedan were your merchants; many coastlands were your customers; they paid you with ivory tusks and ebony. <a name="27:16">27:16</a> Aram engaged in trade with you because of the abundance of your goods; they exchanged turquoise, purple, embroidered work, fine linen, coral, and rubies for your merchandise. <a name="27:17">27:17</a> Judah and the land of Israel engaged in trade with you; they traded wheat from Minnith, millet, honey, olive oil, and balm for your products. <a name="27:18">27:18</a> Damascus engaged in trade with you because of the abundance of your goods — because of all your wealth — wine of Helbon and white wool. <a name="27:19">27:19</a> Vedan and Javan from Uzal traded wrought iron, cassia, and sweet cane for your merchandise. <a name="27:20">27:20</a> Dedan traded with you in saddlecloths for riding. <a name="27:21">27:21</a> Arabia and all the princes of Kedar did business with you; for lambs, rams, and goats, they engaged in trade with you. <a name="27:22">27:22</a> The merchants of Sheba and Raamah engaged in trade with you; they traded the best kinds of spices along with precious stones, and gold, for your products. <a name="27:23">27:23</a> Haran, Kanneh, Eden, the traders of Sheba, Asshur, and Kilmad engaged in trade with you. <a name="27:24">27:24</a> They traded with you choice garments, purple clothes and embroidered work, and multicolored carpets, bound and reinforced with cords; these were among your merchandise. <a name="27:25">27:25</a> The ships of Tarshish were the transports for your merchandise.

> “‘So you were filled and weighed down in the heart of the seas.
> <a name="27:26">27:26</a> Your rowers have brought you into surging waters.
> The east wind has wrecked you in the heart of the seas.
> <a name="27:27">27:27</a> Your wealth, wares, and merchandise,
> your sailors and captains,
> your ship’s carpenters, your merchants,
> and all your men of war within you, along with all your crew who are in you,
> will fall into the heart of the seas on the day you are overthrown.
> <a name="27:28">27:28</a> At the sound of your captains’ cry the countryside shakes;
> <a name="27:29">27:29</a> all who handle the oar, the sailors and all the sea captains,
> will come down from their ships; they will stand on the land.
> <a name="27:30">27:30</a> They will lament loudly over you
> and cry bitterly.
> They will throw dust on their heads and roll in the ashes;
> <a name="27:31">27:31</a> they will tear out their hair because of you,
> and put on sackcloth,
> and they will bitterly weep over you with intense mourning.
> <a name="27:32">27:32</a> As they wail they will lament over you, chanting:
> “Who is like Tyre, destroyed in the midst of the sea?”
> <a name="27:33">27:33</a> When your merchandise went out from the seas,
> you satisfied many peoples;
> with the abundance of your wealth and merchandise,
> you enriched the kings of the earth.
> <a name="27:34">27:34</a> Now you are wrecked by the seas, in the depths of the water;
> your merchandise and all your company have sunk in the midst of you.
> <a name="27:35">27:35</a> All the inhabitants of the coastlands are shocked at you;
> and their kings are horribly afraid — their faces are distorted.
> <a name="27:36">27:36</a> The sailors among the peoples hiss at you;
> you have become terrified, and will be no more.’”
