---
title: 28
parent: Ezekiel
other: x
---

## A Prophecy Against the King of Tyre

<a name="28:1">28:1</a> The word of the Lord came to me: <a name="28:2">28:2</a> “Son of man, say to the ruler of Tyre, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says:

> “‘Your heart is proud and you said, “I am a god;
> I sit in the seat of gods, in the heart of the seas” — 
> yet you are a man and not a god,
> though you think you are godlike.
> <a name="28:3">28:3</a> Look, you are wiser than Daniel;
> no secret is hidden from you.
> <a name="28:4">28:4</a> By your wisdom and understanding
> you have accumulated wealth for yourself,
> you have amassed gold and silver in your treasuries.
> <a name="28:5">28:5</a> By your great skill in trade you have increased your wealth,
> and your heart is proud because of your riches.
> <a name="28:6">28:6</a> “‘Therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord says:
> Because you think you are godlike,
> <a name="28:7">28:7</a> I am about to bring foreigners against you,
> the most terrifying of nations;
> their swords will cut you down despite your beauty and wisdom,
> and they will defile your splendor.
> <a name="28:8">28:8</a> They will bring you down to the pit,
> and you will die violently in the heart of the seas.
> <a name="28:9">28:9</a> Will you still say, “I am a god,” before the one who kills you — 
> though you are a man and not a god — 
> when you are in the power of those who wound you?
> <a name="28:10">28:10</a> You will die the death of the uncircumcised by the hand of foreigners;
> for I have spoken, declares the Sovereign Lord.’”

<a name="28:11">28:11</a> The word of the Lord came to me: <a name="28:12">28:12</a> “Son of man, lament for the king of Tyre, and say to him, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says:

> “‘You were the signet ring of perfection,
> full of wisdom, and perfect in beauty.
> <a name="28:13">28:13</a> You were in Eden, the garden of God.
> Every precious stone was your covering,
> the ruby, topaz, and diamond,
> the beryl, onyx, and jasper,
> the sapphire, turquoise, and emerald;
> your settings and engravings were made of gold.
> On the day you were created they were prepared.
> <a name="28:14">28:14</a> I placed you there with an anointed guardian cherub;
> you were on the holy mountain of God;
> you walked in the midst the stones of fire.
> <a name="28:15">28:15</a> You were blameless in your behavior from the day you were created,
> until sin was discovered in you.
> <a name="28:16">28:16</a> In the abundance of your trade you were filled with violence,
> and you sinned;
> so I defiled you and banished you from the mountain of God,
> the guardian cherub expelled you from the midst of the stones of fire.
> <a name="28:17">28:17</a> Your heart was proud because of your beauty;
> you perverted your wisdom on account of your splendor.
> I threw you down to the ground;
> I placed you before kings, that they might see you.
> <a name="28:18">28:18</a> By the multitude of your iniquities,
> through the sinfulness of your trade,
> you desecrated your sanctuaries.
> So I brought out fire from within you; it consumed you,
> and I turned you to ashes on the earth before the eyes of all who saw you.
> <a name="28:19">28:19</a> All who know you among the peoples are shocked at you;
> you have become terrified and will be no more.’”

## A Prophecy Against Sidon

<a name="28:20">28:20</a> The word of the Lord came to me: <a name="28:21">28:21</a> “Son of man, turn toward Sidon and prophesy against it. <a name="28:22">28:22</a> Say, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says:

> “‘Look, I am against you, Sidon,
> and I will magnify myself in your midst.
> Then they will know that I am the Lord
> when I carry out judgments against her and reveal my sovereign power in her.
> <a name="28:23">28:23</a> I will send a plague into the city and bloodshed into its streets;
> the slain will fall within it, by the sword that attacks it from every side.
> Then they will know that I am the Lord.

<a name="28:24">28:24</a> “‘No longer will Israel suffer from the sharp briers or painful thorns of all who surround and scorn them. Then they will know that I am the Sovereign Lord.

<a name="28:25">28:25</a> “‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: When I regather the house of Israel from the peoples where they are dispersed, I will reveal my sovereign power over them in the sight of the nations, and they will live in their land that I gave to my servant Jacob. <a name="28:26">28:26</a> They will live securely in it; they will build houses and plant vineyards. They will live securely when I execute my judgments on all those who scorn them and surround them. Then they will know that I am the Lord their God.’”
