---
title: 29
parent: Ezekiel
other: x
---

## A Prophecy Against Egypt

<a name="29:1">29:1</a> In the tenth year, in the tenth month, on the twelfth day of the month, the word of the Lord came to me: <a name="29:2">29:2</a> “Son of man, turn toward Pharaoh king of Egypt, and prophesy against him and against all Egypt. <a name="29:3">29:3</a> Tell them, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says:

> “‘Look, I oppose you, Pharaoh king of Egypt,
> the great monster lying in the midst of its streams,
> who has said, “My Nile is my own, I made it for myself.”
> <a name="29:4">29:4</a> I will put hooks in your jaws,
> and make the fish of your streams stick to your scales.
> I will haul you up from the midst of your streams,
> and all the fish of your streams will stick to your scales.
> <a name="29:5">29:5</a> I will leave you in the wilderness,
> along with all the fish of your streams;
> you will fall in the open field,
> and will not be gathered up or buried.
> I have given you as food to the beasts of the earth and the birds of the skies.
> <a name="29:6">29:6</a> Then all those living in Egypt will know that I am the Lord
> because they were a reed staff for the house of Israel;
> <a name="29:7">29:7</a> when they grasped you with their hand, you broke and ripped open their shoulders;
> and when they leaned on you, you splintered and caused their legs to be unsteady.

<a name="29:8">29:8</a> “‘Therefore, this is what the Sovereign Lord says: Look, I am bringing a sword against you, and I will kill every man and beast. <a name="29:9">29:9</a> The land of Egypt will become a desolate ruin. Then they will know that I am the Lord. Because he said, “The Nile is mine and I made it for myself,” <a name="29:10">29:10</a> I oppose you and your streams. I will make the land of Egypt an utter desolate ruin from Migdol to Syene, as far as the border with Ethiopia. <a name="29:11">29:11</a> No human foot will pass through it, and no animal’s foot will pass through it; it will be uninhabited for forty years. <a name="29:12">29:12</a> I will make the land of Egypt desolate in the midst of desolate lands; for forty years her cities will lie desolate in the midst of ruined cities. I will scatter Egypt among the nations and disperse them among foreign countries.

<a name="29:13">29:13</a> “‘For this is what the Sovereign Lord says: At the end of forty years I will gather Egypt from the peoples where they were scattered. <a name="29:14">29:14</a> I will restore the fortunes of Egypt, and will bring them back to the land of Pathros, to the land of their origin; there they will be an insignificant kingdom. <a name="29:15">29:15</a> It will be the most insignificant of the kingdoms; it will never again exalt itself over the nations. I will make them so small that they will not rule over the nations. <a name="29:16">29:16</a> It will never again be Israel’s source of confidence; Israel will remember how they sinned by turning to Egypt for help. Then they will know that I am the Sovereign Lord.’”

<a name="29:17">29:17</a> In the twenty-seventh year, in the first month, on the first day of the month, the word of the Lord came to me: <a name="29:18">29:18</a> “Son of man, King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon made his army labor hard against Tyre. Every head was rubbed bald and every shoulder rubbed bare; yet he and his army received no wages from Tyre for the work he carried out against it. <a name="29:19">29:19</a> Therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord says: Look, I am about to give the land of Egypt to King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon. He will carry off her wealth, capture her loot, and seize her plunder; it will be his army’s wages. <a name="29:20">29:20</a> I have given him the land of Egypt as his compensation for attacking Tyre, because they did it for me, declares the Sovereign Lord. <a name="29:21">29:21</a> On that day I will make Israel powerful, and I will open your mouth among them. Then they will know that I am the Lord.”
