---
title: 30
parent: Ezekiel
other: x
---

## A Lament Over Egypt

<a name="30:1">30:1</a> The word of the Lord came to me: <a name="30:2">30:2</a> “Son of man, prophesy, and say, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says:

> “‘Wail, “Ah, the day is here!”
> <a name="30:3">30:3</a> For the day is near,
> the day of the Lord is near;
> it will be a day of storm clouds,
> it will be a time of judgment for the nations.
> <a name="30:4">30:4</a> A sword will come against Egypt,
> and panic will overtake Ethiopia,
> when the slain fall in Egypt,
> and her wealth is carried off,
> and her foundations are dismantled.
> <a name="30:5">30:5</a> Ethiopia, Put, Lud, all the foreigners, Libya, and the people of the covenant land will die by the sword along with them.
> <a name="30:6">30:6</a> “‘This is what the Lord says:
> Those who support Egypt will fall,
> and the pride of her power will crumble;
> from Migdol to Syene they will die by the sword within her,
> declares the Sovereign Lord.
> <a name="30:7">30:7</a> They will be desolate among desolate lands,
> and their cities will be among ruined cities.
> <a name="30:8">30:8</a> They will know that I am the Lord,
> when I set fire to Egypt,
> and all her allies are defeated.

<a name="30:9">30:9</a> On that day messengers will go out from me in ships to frighten overly confident Ethiopia; panic will overtake them on the day of Egypt’s doom; for it is coming.

> <a name="30:10">30:10</a> “‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says:
> I will put an end to the hordes of Egypt,
> by the hand of King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon.
> <a name="30:11">30:11</a> He and his people with him,
> the most ruthless of the nations,
> will be brought there to destroy the land.
> They will draw their swords against Egypt,
> and fill the land with corpses.
> <a name="30:12">30:12</a> I will dry up the streams,
> and hand the land over to evil men.
> By the hand of foreigners I will make the land and everything in it desolate;
> I the Lord have spoken.
> <a name="30:13">30:13</a> “‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says:
> I will destroy the idols,
> and put an end to the gods of Memphis.
> There will no longer be a prince from the land of Egypt;
> so I will make the land of Egypt fearful.
> <a name="30:14">30:14</a> I will make Pathros desolate,
> I will set fire to Zoan,
> and I will execute judgments on Thebes.
> <a name="30:15">30:15</a> I will pour out my anger upon Sin, the stronghold of Egypt;
> I will cut off the hordes of Thebes.
> <a name="30:16">30:16</a> I will set fire to Egypt;
> Sin will writhe in agony,
> Thebes will be broken down,
> and Memphis will face enemies every day.
> <a name="30:17">30:17</a> The young men of On and of Pibeseth will die by the sword;
> and the cities will go into captivity.
> <a name="30:18">30:18</a> In Tahpanhes the day will be dark,
> when I break the yoke of Egypt there;
> the pride of her power will cease within her;
> a cloud will cover her, and her daughters will go into captivity.
> <a name="30:19">30:19</a> I will execute judgments against Egypt.
> Then they will know that I am the Lord.’”

<a name="30:20">30:20</a> In the eleventh year, in the first month, on the seventh day of the month, the word of the Lord came to me: <a name="30:21">30:21</a> “Son of man, I have broken the arm of Pharaoh king of Egypt. Look, it has not been bandaged for healing or bound with a splint so that it might become strong enough to grasp a sword. <a name="30:22">30:22</a> Therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord says: Look I oppose Pharaoh king of Egypt, and I will break both his arms, the strong arm and the broken one; and I will make the sword drop from his hand. <a name="30:23">30:23</a> I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations, and disperse them among foreign countries. <a name="30:24">30:24</a> I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon, and I will place my sword in his hand; but I will break the arms of Pharaoh, and he will groan before the king of Babylon as a man with a fatal wound groans. <a name="30:25">30:25</a> I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon, but the arms of Pharaoh will fall limp. Then they will know that I am the Lord, when I place my sword in the hand of the king of Babylon. He will extend it against the land of Egypt. <a name="30:26">30:26</a> I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations and disperse them among foreign countries. Then they will know that I am the Lord.”
