---
title: 41
parent: Ezekiel
other: x
---

## The Inner Temple

<a name="41:1">41:1</a> Then he brought me to the outer sanctuary, and measured the jambs; the jambs were ten and a half feet wide on each side. <a name="41:2">41:2</a> The width of the entrance was seventeen and a half feet, and the sides of the entrance were eight and three-quarter feet on each side. He measured the length of the outer sanctuary as seventy feet, and its width as thirty-five feet.

<a name="41:3">41:3</a> Then he went into the inner sanctuary and measured the jambs of the entrance as three and a half feet, the entrance as ten and a half feet, and the width of the entrance as twelve and a quarter feet <a name="41:4">41:4</a> Then he measured its length as thirty-five feet, and its width as thirty-five feet, before the outer sanctuary. He said to me, “This is the most holy place.”

<a name="41:5">41:5</a> Then he measured the wall of the temple as ten and a half feet, and the width of the side chambers as seven feet, all around the temple. <a name="41:6">41:6</a> The side chambers were in three stories, one above the other, thirty in each story. There were offsets in the wall all around to serve as supports for the side chambers, so that the supports were not in the wall of the temple. <a name="41:7">41:7</a> The side chambers surrounding the temple were wider at each successive story; for the structure surrounding the temple went up story by story all around the temple. For this reason the width of the temple increased as it went up; and one went up from the lowest story to the highest by the way of the middle story.

<a name="41:8">41:8</a> I saw that the temple had a raised platform all around; the foundations of the side chambers were a full measuring stick of ten and a half feet high. <a name="41:9">41:9</a> The width of the outer wall of the side chambers was eight and three-quarter feet, and the open area between the side chambers of the temple <a name="41:10">41:10</a> and the chambers of the court was thirty-five feet in width all around the temple on every side. <a name="41:11">41:11</a> There were entrances of the side chambers toward the open area, one entrance toward the north, and another entrance toward the south; the width of the open area was eight and three-quarter feet all around.

<a name="41:12">41:12</a> The building that was facing the temple courtyard at the west side was one hundred twenty-two and a half feet wide; the wall of the building was eight and three-quarter feet all around, and its length one hundred fifty-seven and a half feet.

<a name="41:13">41:13</a> Then he measured the temple as one hundred seventy-five feet long, the courtyard of the temple and the building and its walls as one hundred seventy-five feet long, <a name="41:14">41:14</a> and also the width of the front of the temple and the courtyard on the east as one hundred seventy-five feet.

<a name="41:15">41:15</a> Then he measured the length of the building facing the courtyard at the rear of the temple, with its galleries on either side as one hundred seventy-five feet.

The interior of the outer sanctuary and the porch of the court, <a name="41:16">41:16</a> as well as the thresholds, narrow windows and galleries all around on three sides facing the threshold were paneled with wood all around, from the ground up to the windows (now the windows were covered), <a name="41:17">41:17</a> to the space above the entrance, to the inner room, and on the outside, and on all the walls in the inner room and outside, by measurement. <a name="41:18">41:18</a> It was made with cherubim and decorative palm trees, with a palm tree between each cherub. Each cherub had two faces: <a name="41:19">41:19</a> a human face toward the palm tree on one side and a lion’s face toward the palm tree on the other side. They were carved on the whole temple all around; <a name="41:20">41:20</a> from the ground to the area above the entrance, cherubim and decorative palm trees were carved on the wall of the outer sanctuary. <a name="41:21">41:21</a> The doorposts of the outer sanctuary were square. In front of the sanctuary one doorpost looked just like the other. <a name="41:22">41:22</a> The altar was of wood, five and a quarter feet high, with its length three and a half feet; its corners, its length, and its walls were of wood. He said to me, “This is the table that is before the Lord.” <a name="41:23">41:23</a> The outer sanctuary and the inner sanctuary each had a double door. <a name="41:24">41:24</a> Each of the doors had two leaves, two swinging leaves; two leaves for one door and two leaves for the other. <a name="41:25">41:25</a> On the doors of the outer sanctuary were carved cherubim and palm trees, like those carved on the walls; and there was a canopy of wood on the front of the outside porch. <a name="41:26">41:26</a> There were narrow windows and decorative palm trees on either side of the side walls of the porch; this is what the side chambers of the temple and the canopies were like.
