---
title: 03
parent: Joel
other: x
---

## The LORD Plans to Judge the Nations

<a name="3:1">3:1</a> For look! In those days and at that time
I will return the exiles to Judah and Jerusalem.

<a name="3:2">3:2</a> Then I will gather all the nations,
and bring them down to the valley of Jehoshaphat.
I will enter into judgment against them there
concerning my people Israel who are my inheritance,
whom they scattered among the nations.
They partitioned my land,

<a name="3:3">3:3</a> and they cast lots for my people.
They traded a boy for a prostitute;
they sold a little girl for wine so they could drink.

<a name="3:4">3:4</a> Why are you doing these things to me, Tyre and Sidon?
Are you trying to get even with me, land of Philistia?
I will very quickly repay you for what you have done.

<a name="3:5">3:5</a> For you took my silver and my gold
and brought my precious valuables to your own palaces.

<a name="3:6">3:6</a> You sold Judeans and Jerusalemites to the Greeks,
removing them far from their own country.

<a name="3:7">3:7</a> Look! I am rousing them from that place to which you sold them.
I will repay you for what you have done.

<a name="3:8">3:8</a> I will sell your sons and daughters to the people of Judah.
They will sell them to the Sabeans, a nation far away.
Indeed, the LORD has spoken!

## Judgment in the Valley of Jehoshaphat

<a name="3:9">3:9</a> Proclaim this among the nations:
“Prepare for a holy war!
Call out the warriors!
Let all these fighting men approach and attack!

<a name="3:10">3:10</a> Beat your plowshares into swords,
and your pruning hooks into spears.
Let the weak say, ‘I too am a warrior!’

<a name="3:11">3:11</a> Lend your aid and come,
all you surrounding nations,
and gather yourselves to that place.”
Bring down, O LORD, your warriors!

<a name="3:12">3:12</a> Let the nations be roused and let them go up
to the valley of Jehoshaphat,
for there I will sit in judgment on all the surrounding nations.

<a name="3:13">3:13</a> Rush forth with the sickle, for the harvest is ripe!
Come, stomp the grapes, for the winepress is full!
The vats overflow.
Indeed, their evil is great!

<a name="3:14">3:14</a> Crowds, great crowds are in the valley of decision,
for the day of the LORD is near in the valley of decision!

<a name="3:15">3:15</a> The sun and moon are darkened;
the stars withhold their brightness.

<a name="3:16">3:16</a> The LORD roars from Zion;
from Jerusalem he sounds forth his voice.
The heavens and the earth shake.
But the LORD is a refuge for his people;
he is a stronghold for the citizens of Israel.

## The LORD’s Presence in Zion

<a name="3:17">3:17</a> You will be convinced that I the LORD am your God,
dwelling on Zion, my holy mountain.
Jerusalem will be holy — 
conquering armies will no longer pass through it.

<a name="3:18">3:18</a> On that day the mountains will drip with sweet wine,
and the hills will flow with milk.
All the dry stream beds of Judah will flow with water.
A spring will flow out from the temple of the LORD,
watering the valley of acacia trees.

<a name="3:19">3:19</a> Egypt will be desolate
and Edom will be a desolate wilderness,
because of the violence they did to the people of Judah,
in whose land they shed innocent blood.

<a name="3:20">3:20</a> But Judah will reside securely forever,
and Jerusalem will be secure from one generation to the next.

<a name="3:21">3:21</a> And I will avenge their blood which I had not previously acquitted.
It is the LORD who dwells in Zion!
