---
title: 02
parent: Titus
other: x
---

## Conduct Consistent with Sound Teaching

<a name="2:1">2:1</a> But as for you, communicate the behavior that goes with sound teaching. <a name="2:2">2:2</a> Older men are to be temperate, dignified, self-controlled, sound in faith, in love, and in endurance. <a name="2:3">2:3</a> Older women likewise are to exhibit behavior fitting for those who are holy, not slandering, not slaves to excessive drinking, but teaching what is good. <a name="2:4">2:4</a> In this way they will train the younger women to love their husbands, to love their children, <a name="2:5">2:5</a> to be self-controlled, pure, fulfilling their duties at home, kind, being subject to their own husbands, so that the message of God may not be discredited. <a name="2:6">2:6</a> Encourage younger men likewise to be self-controlled, <a name="2:7">2:7</a> showing yourself to be an example of good works in every way. In your teaching show integrity, dignity, <a name="2:8">2:8</a> and a sound message that cannot be criticized, so that any opponent will be at a loss, because he has nothing evil to say about us. <a name="2:9">2:9</a> Slaves are to be subject to their own masters in everything, to do what is wanted and not talk back, <a name="2:10">2:10</a> not pilfering, but showing all good faith, in order to bring credit to the teaching of God our Savior in everything.

<a name="2:11">2:11</a> For the grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation to all people. <a name="2:12">2:12</a> It trains us to reject godless ways and worldly desires and to live self-controlled, upright, and godly lives in the present age, <a name="2:13">2:13</a> as we wait for the happy fulfillment of our hope in the glorious appearing of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ. <a name="2:14">2:14</a> He gave himself for us to set us free from every kind of lawlessness and to purify for himself a people who are truly his, who are eager to do good. <a name="2:15">2:15</a> So communicate these things with the sort of exhortation or rebuke that carries full authority. Don’t let anyone look down on you.
