---
title: 05
parent: 2 Corinthians
other: x
---

## Living by Faith, Not by Sight

<a name="5:1">5:1</a> For we know that if our earthly house, the tent we live in, is dismantled, we have a building from God, a house not built by human hands, that is eternal in the heavens. <a name="5:2">5:2</a> For in this earthly house we groan, because we desire to put on our heavenly dwelling, <a name="5:3">5:3</a> if indeed, after we have put on our heavenly house, we will not be found naked. <a name="5:4">5:4</a> For we groan while we are in this tent, since we are weighed down, because we do not want to be unclothed, but clothed, so that what is mortal may be swallowed up by life. <a name="5:5">5:5</a> Now the one who prepared us for this very purpose is God, who gave us the Spirit as a down payment. <a name="5:6">5:6</a> Therefore we are always full of courage, and we know that as long as we are alive here on earth we are absent from the Lord —  <a name="5:7">5:7</a> for we live by faith, not by sight. <a name="5:8">5:8</a> Thus we are full of courage and would prefer to be away from the body and at home with the Lord. <a name="5:9">5:9</a> So then whether we are alive or away, we make it our ambition to please him. <a name="5:10">5:10</a> For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, so that each one may be paid back according to what he has done while in the body, whether good or evil.

## The Message of Reconciliation

<a name="5:11">5:11</a> Therefore, because we know the fear of the Lord, we try to persuade people, but we are well known to God, and I hope we are well known to your consciences too. <a name="5:12">5:12</a> We are not trying to commend ourselves to you again, but are giving you an opportunity to be proud of us, so that you may be able to answer those who take pride in outward appearance and not in what is in the heart. <a name="5:13">5:13</a> For if we are out of our minds, it is for God; if we are of sound mind, it is for you. <a name="5:14">5:14</a> For the love of Christ controls us, since we have concluded this, that Christ died for all; therefore all have died. <a name="5:15">5:15</a> And he died for all so that those who live should no longer live for themselves but for him who died for them and was raised. <a name="5:16">5:16</a> So then from now on we acknowledge no one from an outward human point of view. Even though we have known Christ from such a human point of view, now we do not know him in that way any longer. <a name="5:17">5:17</a> So then, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation; what is old has passed away — look, what is new has come! <a name="5:18">5:18</a> And all these things are from God who reconciled us to himself through Christ, and who has given us the ministry of reconciliation. <a name="5:19">5:19</a> In other words, in Christ God was reconciling the world to himself, not counting people’s trespasses against them, and he has given us the message of reconciliation. <a name="5:20">5:20</a> Therefore we are ambassadors for Christ, as though God were making His plea through us. We plead with you on Christ’s behalf, “Be reconciled to God!” <a name="5:21">5:21</a> God made the one who did not know sin to be sin for us, so that in him we would become the righteousness of God.
