---
title: 34
parent: Deuteronomy
other: x
---

## The Death of Moses

<a name="34:1">34:1</a> Then Moses ascended from the deserts of Moab to Mount Nebo, to the summit of Pisgah, which is opposite Jericho. The Lord showed him the whole land — Gilead to Dan, <a name="34:2">34:2</a> and all of Naphtali, the land of Ephraim and Manasseh, all the land of Judah as far as the distant sea, <a name="34:3">34:3</a> the Negev, and the plain of the valley of Jericho, the city of the date palm trees, as far as Zoar. <a name="34:4">34:4</a> Then the Lord said to him, “This is the land I promised to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob when I said, ‘I will give it to your descendants.’ I have let you see it, but you will not cross over there.”

<a name="34:5">34:5</a> So Moses, the servant of the Lord, died there in the land of Moab as the Lord had said.

<a name="34:6">34:6</a> He buried him in the land of Moab near Beth Peor, but no one knows his exact burial place to this very day. <a name="34:7">34:7</a> Moses was one hundred and twenty years old when he died, but his eye was not dull nor had his vitality departed. <a name="34:8">34:8</a> The Israelites mourned for Moses in the deserts of Moab for thirty days; then the days of mourning for Moses ended.

## The Epitaph of Moses

<a name="34:9">34:9</a> Now Joshua son of Nun was full of the spirit of wisdom, for Moses had placed his hands on him; and the Israelites listened to him and did just what the Lord had commanded Moses. <a name="34:10">34:10</a> No prophet ever again arose in Israel like Moses, who knew the Lord face to face. <a name="34:11">34:11</a> He did all the signs and wonders the Lord had sent him to do in the land of Egypt, to Pharaoh, all his servants, and the whole land, <a name="34:12">34:12</a> and he displayed great power and awesome might in view of all Israel.