---
title: 05
parent: 1 Corinthians
other: x
---

## Church Discipline

<a name="5:1">5:1</a> It is actually reported that sexual immorality exists among you, the kind of immorality that is not permitted even among the Gentiles, so that someone is cohabitating with his father’s wife. <a name="5:2">5:2</a> And you are proud! Shouldn’t you have been deeply sorrowful instead and removed the one who did this from among you? <a name="5:3">5:3</a> For even though I am absent physically, I am present in spirit. And I have already judged the one who did this, just as though I were present. <a name="5:4">5:4</a> When you gather together in the name of our Lord Jesus, and I am with you in spirit, along with the power of our Lord Jesus, <a name="5:5">5:5</a> turn this man over to Satan for the destruction of the flesh, so that his spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord.

<a name="5:6">5:6</a> Your boasting is not good. Don’t you know that a little yeast affects the whole batch of dough? <a name="5:7">5:7</a> Clean out the old yeast so that you may be a new batch of dough — you are, in fact, without yeast. For Christ, our Passover lamb, has been sacrificed. <a name="5:8">5:8</a> So then, let us celebrate the festival, not with the old yeast, the yeast of vice and evil, but with the bread without yeast, the bread of sincerity and truth.

<a name="5:9">5:9</a> I wrote you in my letter not to associate with sexually immoral people. <a name="5:10">5:10</a> In no way did I mean the immoral people of this world, or the greedy and swindlers and idolaters, since you would then have to go out of the world. <a name="5:11">5:11</a> But now I am writing to you not to associate with anyone who calls himself a Christian who is sexually immoral, or greedy, or an idolater, or verbally abusive, or a drunkard, or a swindler. Do not even eat with such a person. <a name="5:12">5:12</a> For what do I have to do with judging those outside? Are you not to judge those inside? <a name="5:13">5:13</a> But God will judge those outside. Remove the evil person from among you.
