---
title: 12
parent: 1 Corinthians
other: x
---

## Spiritual Gifts

<a name="12:1">12:1</a> With regard to spiritual gifts, brothers and sisters, I do not want you to be uninformed. <a name="12:2">12:2</a> You know that when you were pagans you were often led astray by speechless idols, however you were led. <a name="12:3">12:3</a> So I want you to understand that no one speaking by the Spirit of God says, “Jesus is cursed,” and no one can say, “Jesus is Lord,” except by the Holy Spirit.

<a name="12:4">12:4</a> Now there are different gifts, but the same Spirit. <a name="12:5">12:5</a> And there are different ministries, but the same Lord. <a name="12:6">12:6</a> And there are different results, but the same God who produces all of them in everyone. <a name="12:7">12:7</a> To each person the manifestation of the Spirit is given for the benefit of all. <a name="12:8">12:8</a> For one person is given through the Spirit the message of wisdom, and another the message of knowledge according to the same Spirit, <a name="12:9">12:9</a> to another faith by the same Spirit, and to another gifts of healing by the one Spirit, <a name="12:10">12:10</a> to another performance of miracles, to another prophecy, and to another discernment of spirits, to another different kinds of tongues, and to another the interpretation of tongues. <a name="12:11">12:11</a> It is one and the same Spirit, distributing as he decides to each person, who produces all these things.

## Different Members in One Body

<a name="12:12">12:12</a> For just as the body is one and yet has many members, and all the members of the body — though many — are one body, so too is Christ. <a name="12:13">12:13</a> For in one Spirit we were all baptized into one body. Whether Jews or Greeks or slaves or free, we were all made to drink of the one Spirit. <a name="12:14">12:14</a> For in fact the body is not a single member, but many. <a name="12:15">12:15</a> If the foot says, “Since I am not a hand, I am not part of the body,” it does not lose its membership in the body because of that. <a name="12:16">12:16</a> And if the ear says, “Since I am not an eye, I am not part of the body,” it does not lose its membership in the body because of that. <a name="12:17">12:17</a> If the whole body were an eye, what part would do the hearing? If the whole were an ear, what part would exercise the sense of smell? <a name="12:18">12:18</a> But as a matter of fact, God has placed each of the members in the body just as he decided. <a name="12:19">12:19</a> If they were all the same member, where would the body be? <a name="12:20">12:20</a> So now there are many members, but one body. <a name="12:21">12:21</a> The eye cannot say to the hand, “I do not need you,” nor in turn can the head say to the foot, “I do not need you.” <a name="12:22">12:22</a> On the contrary, those members that seem to be weaker are essential, <a name="12:23">12:23</a> and those members we consider less honorable we clothe with greater honor, and our unpresentable members are clothed with dignity, <a name="12:24">12:24</a> but our presentable members do not need this. Instead, God has blended together the body, giving greater honor to the lesser member, <a name="12:25">12:25</a> so that there may be no division in the body, but the members may have mutual concern for one another. <a name="12:26">12:26</a> If one member suffers, everyone suffers with it. If a member is honored, all rejoice with it.

<a name="12:27">12:27</a> Now you are Christ’s body, and each of you is a member of it. <a name="12:28">12:28</a> And God has placed in the church first apostles, second prophets, third teachers, then miracles, gifts of healing, helps, gifts of leadership, different kinds of tongues. <a name="12:29">12:29</a> Not all are apostles, are they? Not all are prophets, are they? Not all are teachers, are they? Not all perform miracles, do they? <a name="12:30">12:30</a> Not all have gifts of healing, do they? Not all speak in tongues, do they? Not all interpret, do they? <a name="12:31">12:31</a> But you should be eager for the greater gifts.

And now I will show you a way that is beyond comparison.
