---
title: 16
parent: 1 Corinthians
other: x
---

## A Collection to Aid Jewish Christians

<a name="16:1">16:1</a> With regard to the collection for the saints, please follow the directions that I gave to the churches of Galatia: <a name="16:2">16:2</a> On the first day of the week, each of you should set aside some income and save it to the extent that God has blessed you, so that a collection will not have to be made when I come. <a name="16:3">16:3</a> Then, when I arrive, I will send those whom you approve with letters of explanation to carry your gift to Jerusalem. <a name="16:4">16:4</a> And if it seems advisable that I should go also, they will go with me.

## Paul’s Plans to Visit

<a name="16:5">16:5</a> But I will come to you after I have gone through Macedonia — for I will be going through Macedonia —  <a name="16:6">16:6</a> and perhaps I will stay with you, or even spend the winter, so that you can send me on my journey, wherever I go. <a name="16:7">16:7</a> For I do not want to see you now in passing, since I hope to spend some time with you, if the Lord allows. <a name="16:8">16:8</a> But I will stay in Ephesus until Pentecost, <a name="16:9">16:9</a> because a door of great opportunity stands wide open for me, but there are many opponents.

<a name="16:10">16:10</a> Now if Timothy comes, see that he has nothing to fear among you, for he is doing the Lord’s work, as I am too. <a name="16:11">16:11</a> So then, let no one treat him with contempt. But send him on his way in peace so that he may come to me. For I am expecting him with the brothers.

<a name="16:12">16:12</a> With regard to our brother Apollos: I strongly encouraged him to visit you with the other brothers, but it was simply not his intention to come now. He will come when he has the opportunity.

## Final Challenge and Blessing

<a name="16:13">16:13</a> Stay alert, stand firm in the faith, show courage, be strong. <a name="16:14">16:14</a> Everything you do should be done in love.

<a name="16:15">16:15</a> Now, brothers and sisters, you know about the household of Stephanus, that as the first converts of Achaia, they devoted themselves to ministry for the saints. I urge you <a name="16:16">16:16</a> also to submit to people like this, and to everyone who cooperates in the work and labors hard. <a name="16:17">16:17</a> I was glad about the arrival of Stephanus, Fortunatus, and Achaicus because they have supplied the fellowship with you that I lacked. <a name="16:18">16:18</a> For they refreshed my spirit and yours. So then, recognize people like this.

<a name="16:19">16:19</a> The churches in the province of Asia send greetings to you. Aquila and Prisca greet you warmly in the Lord, with the church that meets in their house. <a name="16:20">16:20</a> All the brothers and sisters send greetings. Greet one another with a holy kiss.

<a name="16:21">16:21</a> I, Paul, send this greeting with my own hand.

<a name="16:22">16:22</a> Let anyone who has no love for the Lord be accursed. Our Lord, come!

<a name="16:23">16:23</a> The grace of the Lord Jesus be with you.

<a name="16:24">16:24</a> My love be with all of you in Christ Jesus.
