---
title: 02
parent: Song of Songs
other: x
---

<a name="2:1">2:1</a> I am a meadow flower from Sharon,
a lily from the valleys.

### The Lover to His Beloved:

<a name="2:2">2:2</a> Like a lily among the thorns,
so is my darling among the maidens.

### The Beloved about Her Lover:

<a name="2:3">2:3</a> Like an apple tree among the trees of the forest,
so is my beloved among the young men.
I delight to sit in his shade,
and his fruit is sweet to my taste.

## The Banquet Hall for the Love-Sick

### The Beloved about Her Lover:

<a name="2:4">2:4</a> He brought me into the banquet hall,
and he looked at me lovingly.
<a name="2:5">2:5</a> Sustain me with raisin cakes,
refresh me with apples,
for I am faint with love.

## The Double Refrain: Embracing and Adjuration

<a name="2:6">2:6</a> His left hand caresses my head,
and his right hand stimulates me.

### The Beloved to the Maidens:

<a name="2:7">2:7</a> I adjure you, O maidens of Jerusalem,
by the gazelles and by the young does of the open fields:
Do not awaken or arouse love until it pleases!

## The Arrival of the Lover

### The Beloved about Her Lover:

<a name="2:8">2:8</a> Listen! My lover is approaching!
Look! Here he comes,
leaping over the mountains,
bounding over the hills!
<a name="2:9">2:9</a> My lover is like a gazelle or a young stag.
Look! There he stands behind our wall,
gazing through the window,
peering through the lattice.

## The Season of Love and the Song of the Turtle-Dove

### The Lover to His Beloved:

<a name="2:10">2:10</a> My lover spoke to me, saying:
“Arise, my darling;
My beautiful one, come away with me!
<a name="2:11">2:11</a> Look! The winter has passed,
the winter rains are over and gone.
<a name="2:12">2:12</a> The pomegranates have appeared in the land,
the time for pruning and singing has come;
the voice of the turtledove is heard in our land.
<a name="2:13">2:13</a> The fig tree has budded,
the vines have blossomed and give off their fragrance.
Arise, come away my darling;
my beautiful one, come away with me!”

## The Dove in the Clefts of En-Gedi

### The Lover to His Beloved:

<a name="2:14">2:14</a> O my dove, in the clefts of the rock,
in the hiding places of the mountain crags,
let me see your face,
let me hear your voice;
for your voice is sweet,
and your face is lovely.

## The Foxes in the Vineyard

### The Beloved to Her Lover:

<a name="2:15">2:15</a> Catch the foxes for us,
the little foxes,
that ruin the vineyards — 
for our vineyard is in bloom.

## Poetic Refrain: Mutual Possession

### The Beloved about Her Lover:

<a name="2:16">2:16</a> My lover is mine and I am his;
he grazes among the lilies.

## The Gazelle and the Ravenous Mountains

### The Beloved to Her Lover:

<a name="2:17">2:17</a> Until the dawn arrives and the shadows flee,
turn, my beloved — 
be like a gazelle or a young stag
on the mountain gorges.
