---
title: 08
parent: Song of Songs
other: x
---

## The Beloved’s Wish Song

### The Beloved to Her Lover:

<a name="8:1">8:1</a> Oh, how I wish you were my little brother,
nursing at my mother’s breasts;
if I saw you outside, I could kiss you — 
surely no one would despise me!
<a name="8:2">8:2</a> I would lead you and bring you to my mother’s house,
the one who taught me.
I would give you spiced wine to drink,
the nectar of my pomegranates.

## Double Refrain: Embracing and Adjuration

### The Beloved about Her Lover:

<a name="8:3">8:3</a> His left hand caresses my head,
and his right hand stimulates me.

### The Beloved to the Maidens:

<a name="8:4">8:4</a> I admonish you, O maidens of Jerusalem:
“Do not arouse or awaken love until it pleases!”

## The Awakening of Love

### The Maidens about His Beloved:

<a name="8:5">8:5</a> Who is this coming up from the desert,
leaning on her beloved?

### The Beloved to Her Lover:

Under the apple tree I aroused you;
there your mother conceived you,
there she who bore you was in labor of childbirth.

## The Nature of True Love

### The Beloved to Her Lover:

<a name="8:6">8:6</a> Set me like a cylinder seal over your heart,
like a signet on your arm.
For love is as strong as death,
passion is as unrelenting as Sheol.
Its flames burst forth,
it is a blazing flame.
<a name="8:7">8:7</a> Surging waters cannot quench love;
floodwaters cannot overflow it.
If someone were to offer all his possessions to buy love,
they would be utterly despised.

## The Brother’s Plan and The Sister’s Reward

### The Beloved’s Brothers:

<a name="8:8">8:8</a> We have a little sister,
and as yet she has no breasts.
What shall we do for our sister
on the day when she is spoken for?
<a name="8:9">8:9</a> If she is a wall,
we will build on her a battlement of silver;
but if she is a door,
we will barricade her with boards of cedar.

### The Beloved:

<a name="8:10">8:10</a> I was a wall,
and my breasts were like fortress towers.
Then I found favor in his eyes.

## Solomon’s Vineyard and The Beloved’s “Vineyard”

### The Beloved to Her Lover:

<a name="8:11">8:11</a> Solomon had a vineyard at Baal-Hamon;
he leased out the vineyard to those who maintained it.
Each was to bring a thousand shekels of silver for its fruit.
<a name="8:12">8:12</a> My “vineyard,” which belongs to me, is at my disposal alone.
The “thousand shekels” belong to you, O Solomon,
and two hundred shekels belong to those who maintain it for its “fruit.”

## Epilogue: The Lover’s Request and His Beloved’s Invitation

### The Lover to His Beloved:

<a name="8:13">8:13</a> O you who stay in the gardens,
my companions are listening attentively for your voice;
let me be the one to hear it!

### The Beloved to Her Lover:

<a name="8:14">8:14</a> Make haste, my beloved!
Be like a gazelle or a young stag
on the mountains of spices.