---
title: 01
parent: 1 John
other: x
---

<a name="1:1">1:1</a> This is what we proclaim to you: what was from the beginning, what we have heard, what we have seen with our eyes, what we have looked at and our hands have touched (concerning the word of life — <a name="1:2">1:2</a> and the life was revealed, and we have seen and testify and announce to you the eternal life that was with the Father and was revealed to us). <a name="1:3">1:3</a> What we have seen and heard we announce to you too, so that you may have fellowship with us (and indeed our fellowship is with the Father and with his Son Jesus Christ). <a name="1:4">1:4</a> Thus we are writing these things so that our joy may be complete.

## God Is Light, So We Must Walk in the Light

<a name="1:5">1:5</a> Now this is the gospel message we have heard from him and announce to you: God is light, and in him there is no darkness at all. <a name="1:6">1:6</a> If we say we have fellowship with him and yet keep on walking in the darkness, we are lying and not practicing the truth. <a name="1:7">1:7</a> But if we walk in the light as he himself is in the light, we have fellowship with one another and the blood of Jesus his Son cleanses us from all sin. <a name="1:8">1:8</a> If we say we do not bear the guilt of sin, we are deceiving ourselves and the truth is not in us. <a name="1:9">1:9</a> But if we confess our sins, he is faithful and righteous, forgiving us our sins and cleansing us from all unrighteousness. <a name="1:10">1:10</a> If we say we have not sinned, we make him a liar and his word is not in us.
