---
title: 05
parent: Judges
other: x
---


## Celebrating the Victory in Song

<a name="5:1">5:1</a> On that day Deborah and Barak son of Abinoam sang this victory song:

> <a name="5:2">5:2</a> “When the leaders took the lead in Israel,
> When the people answered the call to war — 
> Praise the Lord!
> <a name="5:3">5:3</a> Hear, O kings!
> Pay attention, O rulers!
> I will sing to the Lord!
> I will sing to the Lord God of Israel!

> <a name="5:4">5:4</a> O Lord, when you departed from Seir,
> when you marched from Edom’s plains,
> the earth shook, the heavens poured down,
> the clouds poured down rain.
> <a name="5:5">5:5</a> The mountains trembled before the Lord, the God of Sinai;
> before the Lord God of Israel.

> <a name="5:6">5:6</a> In the days of Shamgar son of Anath,
> in the days of Jael caravans disappeared;
> travelers had to go on winding side roads.
> <a name="5:7">5:7</a> Warriors were scarce,
> they were scarce in Israel,
> until you arose, Deborah,
> until you arose as a motherly protector in Israel.
> <a name="5:8">5:8</a> God chose new leaders,
> then fighters appeared in the city gates;
> but, I swear, not a shield or spear could be found,
> among forty military units in Israel.
> <a name="5:9">5:9</a> My heart went out to Israel’s leaders,
> to the people who answered the call to war.
> Praise the Lord!

> <a name="5:10">5:10</a> You who ride on light-colored female donkeys,
> who sit on saddle cloths,
> you who walk on the road, pay attention!
> <a name="5:11">5:11</a> Hear the sound of those who divide the sheep among the watering places;
> there they tell of the Lord’s victorious deeds,
> the victorious deeds of his warriors in Israel.
> Then the Lord’s people went down to the city gates — 

> <a name="5:12">5:12</a> Wake up, wake up, Deborah!
> Wake up, wake up, sing a song!
> Get up, Barak!
> Capture your prisoners of war, son of Abinoam!
> <a name="5:13">5:13</a> Then the survivors came down to the mighty ones;
> the Lord’s people came down to me as warriors.
> <a name="5:14">5:14</a> They came from Ephraim, who uprooted Amalek,
> they follow after you, Benjamin, with your soldiers.
> From Makir leaders came down,
> from Zebulun came the ones who march carrying an officer’s staff.
> <a name="5:15">5:15</a> Issachar’s leaders were with Deborah,
> the men of Issachar supported Barak,
> into the valley they were sent under Barak’s command.
> Among the clans of Reuben there was intense heart searching.
> <a name="5:16">5:16</a> Why do you remain among the sheepfolds,
> listening to the shepherds playing their pipes for their flocks?
> As for the clans of Reuben — there was intense heart searching.
> <a name="5:17">5:17</a> Gilead stayed put beyond the Jordan River.
> As for Dan — why did he seek temporary employment in the shipyards?
> Asher remained on the seacoast,
> he stayed put by his harbors.
> <a name="5:18">5:18</a> The men of Zebulun were not concerned about their lives;
> Naphtali charged on to the battlefields.

> <a name="5:19">5:19</a> Kings came, they fought;
> the kings of Canaan fought,
> at Taanach by the waters of Megiddo,
> but they took no silver as plunder.
> <a name="5:20">5:20</a> From the sky the stars fought,
> from their paths in the heavens they fought against Sisera.
> <a name="5:21">5:21</a> The Kishon River carried them off;
> the river confronted them — the Kishon River.
> Step on the necks of the strong!

> <a name="5:22">5:22</a> The horses’ hooves pounded the ground;
> the stallions galloped madly.
> <a name="5:23">5:23</a> ‘Call judgment down on Meroz,’ says the Lord’s angelic messenger;
> ‘Be sure to call judgment down on those who live there,
> because they did not come to help in the Lord’s battle,
> to help in the Lord’s battle against the warriors.’

> <a name="5:24">5:24</a> The most rewarded of women should be Jael,
> the wife of Heber the Kenite!
> She should be the most rewarded of women who live in tents.
> <a name="5:25">5:25</a> He asked for water,
> and she gave him milk;
> in a bowl fit for important men,
> she served him curds.
> <a name="5:26">5:26</a> Her left hand reached for the tent peg,
> her right hand for the workmen’s hammer.
> She “hammered” Sisera,
> she shattered his skull,
> she smashed his head,
> she drove the tent peg through his temple.
> <a name="5:27">5:27</a> Between her feet he collapsed,
> he fell limp and was lifeless;
> between her feet he collapsed and fell limp,
> in the spot where he collapsed,
> there he fell limp — violently murdered!

> <a name="5:28">5:28</a> Through the window she looked;
> Sisera’s mother cried out through the lattice:
> ‘Why is his chariot so slow to return?
> Why are the hoofbeats of his chariot-horses delayed?’
> <a name="5:29">5:29</a> The wisest of her ladies answer;
> indeed she even thinks to herself,
> <a name="5:30">5:30</a> ‘No doubt they are gathering and dividing the plunder —
> a girl or two for each man to rape!
> Sisera is grabbing up colorful cloth,
> he is grabbing up colorful embroidered cloth,
> two pieces of colorful embroidered cloth,
> for the neck of the plunderer!’

> <a name="5:31">5:31</a> May all your enemies perish like this, O Lord!
> But may those who love you shine
> like the rising sun at its brightest!”

And the land had rest for forty years.