---
title: 02
parent: 2 Timothy
other: x
---
## Serving Faithfully Despite Hardship

<a name="2:1">2:1</a> So you, my child, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. <a name="2:2">2:2</a> And entrust what you heard me say in the presence of many others as witnesses to faithful people who will be competent to teach others as well. <a name="2:3">2:3</a> Take your share of suffering as a good soldier of Christ Jesus. <a name="2:4">2:4</a> No one in military service gets entangled in matters of everyday life; otherwise he will not please the one who recruited him. <a name="2:5">2:5</a> Also, if anyone competes as an athlete, he will not be crowned as the winner unless he competes according to the rules. <a name="2:6">2:6</a> The farmer who works hard ought to have the first share of the crops. <a name="2:7">2:7</a> Think about what I am saying and the Lord will give you understanding of all this.

<a name="2:8">2:8</a> Remember Jesus Christ, raised from the dead, a descendant of David; such is my gospel, <a name="2:9">2:9</a> for which I suffer hardship to the point of imprisonment as a criminal, but God’s message is not imprisoned! <a name="2:10">2:10</a> So I endure all things for the sake of those chosen by God, that they too may obtain salvation in Christ Jesus and its eternal glory. <a name="2:11">2:11</a> This saying is trustworthy:

> If we died with him, we will also live with him.
> <a name="2:12">2:12</a> If we endure, we will also reign with him.
> If we deny him, he will also deny us.
> <a name="2:13">2:13</a> If we are unfaithful, he remains faithful, since he cannot deny himself.

## Dealing with False Teachers

<a name="2:14">2:14</a> Remind people of these things and solemnly charge them before the Lord not to wrangle over words. This is of no benefit; it just brings ruin on those who listen. <a name="2:15">2:15</a> Make every effort to present yourself before God as a proven worker who does not need to be ashamed, teaching the message of truth accurately. <a name="2:16">2:16</a> But avoid profane chatter, because those occupied with it will stray further and further into ungodliness, <a name="2:17">2:17</a> and their message will spread its infection like gangrene. Hymenaeus and Philetus are in this group. <a name="2:18">2:18</a> They have strayed from the truth by saying that the resurrection has already occurred, and they are undermining some people’s faith. <a name="2:19">2:19</a> However, God’s solid foundation remains standing, bearing this seal: “The Lord knows those who are his,” and “Everyone who confesses the name of the Lord must turn away from evil.”

<a name="2:20">2:20</a> Now in a wealthy home there are not only gold and silver vessels, but also ones made of wood and of clay, and some are for honorable use, but others for ignoble use. <a name="2:21">2:21</a> So if someone cleanses himself of such behavior, he will be a vessel for honorable use, set apart, useful for the Master, prepared for every good work. <a name="2:22">2:22</a> But keep away from youthful passions, and pursue righteousness, faithfulness, love, and peace, in company with others who call on the Lord from a pure heart. <a name="2:23">2:23</a> But reject foolish and ignorant controversies, because you know they breed infighting. <a name="2:24">2:24</a> And the Lord’s slave must not engage in heated disputes but be kind toward all, an apt teacher, patient, <a name="2:25">2:25</a> correcting opponents with gentleness. Perhaps God will grant them repentance and then knowledge of the truth <a name="2:26">2:26</a> and they will come to their senses and escape the devil’s trap where they are held captive to do his will.
