---
title: 09
parent: 1 Corinthians
other: x
---

## The Rights of an Apostle

<a name="9:1">9:1</a> Am I not free? Am I not an apostle? Have I not seen Jesus our Lord? Are you not my work in the Lord? <a name="9:2">9:2</a> If I am not an apostle to others, at least I am to you, for you are the confirming sign of my apostleship in the Lord. <a name="9:3">9:3</a> This is my defense to those who examine me. <a name="9:4">9:4</a> Do we not have the right to financial support? <a name="9:5">9:5</a> Do we not have the right to the company of a believing wife, like the other apostles and the Lord’s brothers and Cephas? <a name="9:6">9:6</a> Or do only Barnabas and I lack the right not to work? <a name="9:7">9:7</a> Who ever serves in the army at his own expense? Who plants a vineyard and does not eat its fruit? Who tends a flock and does not consume its milk? <a name="9:8">9:8</a> Am I saying these things only on the basis of common sense, or does the law not say this as well? <a name="9:9">9:9</a> For it is written in the law of Moses, “Do not muzzle an ox while it is treading out the grain.” God is not concerned here about oxen, is he? <a name="9:10">9:10</a> Or is he not surely speaking for our benefit? It was written for us, because the one plowing and threshing ought to work in hope of enjoying the harvest. <a name="9:11">9:11</a> If we sowed spiritual blessings among you, is it too much to reap material things from you? <a name="9:12">9:12</a> If others receive this right from you, are we not more deserving?

But we have not made use of this right. Instead we endure everything so that we may not be a hindrance to the gospel of Christ. <a name="9:13">9:13</a> Don’t you know that those who serve in the temple eat food from the temple, and those who serve at the altar receive a part of the offerings? <a name="9:14">9:14</a> In the same way the Lord commanded those who proclaim the gospel to receive their living by the gospel. <a name="9:15">9:15</a> But I have not used any of these rights. And I am not writing these things so that something will be done for me. In fact, it would be better for me to die than — no one will deprive me of my reason for boasting! <a name="9:16">9:16</a> For if I preach the gospel, I have no reason for boasting, because I am compelled to do this. Woe to me if I do not preach the gospel! <a name="9:17">9:17</a> For if I do this voluntarily, I have a reward. But if I do it unwillingly, I am entrusted with a responsibility. <a name="9:18">9:18</a> What then is my reward? That when I preach the gospel I may offer the gospel free of charge, and so not make full use of my rights in the gospel.

<a name="9:19">9:19</a> For since I am free from all I can make myself a slave to all, in order to gain even more people. <a name="9:20">9:20</a> To the Jews I became like a Jew to gain the Jews. To those under the law I became like one under the law (though I myself am not under the law) to gain those under the law. <a name="9:21">9:21</a> To those free from the law I became like one free from the law (though I am not free from God’s law but under the law of Christ) to gain those free from the law. <a name="9:22">9:22</a> To the weak I became weak in order to gain the weak. I have become all things to all people, so that by all means I may save some.

<a name="9:23">9:23</a> I do all these things because of the gospel, so that I can be a participant in it.

<a name="9:24">9:24</a> Do you not know that all the runners in a stadium compete, but only one receives the prize? So run to win. <a name="9:25">9:25</a> Each competitor must exercise self-control in everything. They do it to receive a perishable crown, but we an imperishable one.

<a name="9:26">9:26</a> So I do not run uncertainly or box like one who hits only air. <a name="9:27">9:27</a> Instead I subdue my body and make it my slave, so that after preaching to others I myself will not be disqualified.
