---
title: 10
parent: 1 Corinthians
other: x
---

## Learning from Israel’s Failures

<a name="10:1">10:1</a> For I do not want you to be unaware, brothers and sisters, that our fathers were all under the cloud and all passed through the sea, <a name="10:2">10:2</a> and all were baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea, <a name="10:3">10:3</a> and all ate the same spiritual food, <a name="10:4">10:4</a> and all drank the same spiritual drink. For they were all drinking from the spiritual rock that followed them, and the rock was Christ. <a name="10:5">10:5</a> But God was not pleased with most of them, for they were cut down in the wilderness. <a name="10:6">10:6</a> These things happened as examples for us, so that we will not crave evil things as they did. <a name="10:7">10:7</a> So do not be idolaters, as some of them were. As it is written, “The people sat down to eat and drink and rose up to play.” <a name="10:8">10:8</a> And let us not be immoral, as some of them were, and twenty-three thousand died in a single day. <a name="10:9">10:9</a> And let us not put Christ to the test, as some of them did, and were destroyed by snakes. <a name="10:10">10:10</a> And do not complain, as some of them did, and were killed by the destroying angel. <a name="10:11">10:11</a> These things happened to them as examples and were written for our instruction, on whom the ends of the ages have come. <a name="10:12">10:12</a> So let the one who thinks he is standing be careful that he does not fall. <a name="10:13">10:13</a> No trial has overtaken you that is not faced by others. And God is faithful: He will not let you be tried beyond what you are able to bear, but with the trial will also provide a way out so that you may be able to endure it.

## Avoid Idol Feasts

<a name="10:14">10:14</a> So then, my dear friends, flee from idolatry. <a name="10:15">10:15</a> I am speaking to thoughtful people. Consider what I say. <a name="10:16">10:16</a> Is not the cup of blessing that we bless a sharing in the blood of Christ? Is not the bread that we break a sharing in the body of Christ? <a name="10:17">10:17</a> Because there is one bread, we who are many are one body, for we all share the one bread. <a name="10:18">10:18</a> Look at the people of Israel. Are not those who eat the sacrifices partners in the altar? <a name="10:19">10:19</a> Am I saying that idols or food sacrificed to them amount to anything? <a name="10:20">10:20</a> No, I mean that what the pagans sacrifice is to demons and not to God. I do not want you to be partners with demons. <a name="10:21">10:21</a> You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons. You cannot take part in the table of the Lord and the table of demons. <a name="10:22">10:22</a> Or are we trying to provoke the Lord to jealousy? Are we really stronger than he is?

## Live to Glorify God

<a name="10:23">10:23</a> “Everything is lawful,” but not everything is beneficial. “Everything is lawful,” but not everything builds others up. <a name="10:24">10:24</a> Do not seek your own good, but the good of the other person. <a name="10:25">10:25</a> Eat anything that is sold in the marketplace without questions of conscience, <a name="10:26">10:26</a> for the earth and its abundance are the Lord’s. <a name="10:27">10:27</a> If an unbeliever invites you to dinner and you want to go, eat whatever is served without asking questions of conscience. <a name="10:28">10:28</a> But if someone says to you, “This is from a sacrifice,” do not eat, because of the one who told you and because of conscience —  <a name="10:29">10:29</a> I do not mean yours but the other person’s. For why is my freedom being judged by another’s conscience? <a name="10:30">10:30</a> If I partake with thankfulness, why am I blamed for the food that I give thanks for? <a name="10:31">10:31</a> So whether you eat or drink, or whatever you do, do everything for the glory of God. <a name="10:32">10:32</a> Do not give offense to Jews or Greeks or to the church of God, <a name="10:33">10:33</a> just as I also try to please everyone in all things. I do not seek my own benefit, but the benefit of many, so that they may be saved.
