---
title: 13
parent: 1 Corinthians
other: x
---

## The Way of Love

<a name="13:1">13:1</a> If I speak in the tongues of men and of angels, but I do not have love, I am a noisy gong or a clanging cymbal. <a name="13:2">13:2</a> And if I have prophecy, and know all mysteries and all knowledge, and if I have all faith so that I can remove mountains, but do not have love, I am nothing. <a name="13:3">13:3</a> If I give away everything I own, and if I give over my body in order to boast, but do not have love, I receive no benefit.

<a name="13:4">13:4</a> Love is patient, love is kind, it is not envious. Love does not brag, it is not puffed up. <a name="13:5">13:5</a> It is not rude, it is not self-serving, it is not easily angered or resentful. <a name="13:6">13:6</a> It is not glad about injustice, but rejoices in the truth. <a name="13:7">13:7</a> It bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things.

<a name="13:8">13:8</a> Love never ends. But if there are prophecies, they will be set aside; if there are tongues, they will cease; if there is knowledge, it will be set aside. <a name="13:9">13:9</a> For we know in part, and we prophesy in part, <a name="13:10">13:10</a> but when what is perfect comes, the partial will be set aside. <a name="13:11">13:11</a> When I was a child, I talked like a child, I thought like a child, I reasoned like a child. But when I became an adult, I set aside childish ways. <a name="13:12">13:12</a> For now we see in a mirror indirectly, but then we will see face to face. Now I know in part, but then I will know fully, just as I have been fully known. <a name="13:13">13:13</a> And now these three remain: faith, hope, and love. But the greatest of these is love.
