---
title: 03
parent: Jonah
other: x
---

## The People of Nineveh Respond to Jonah’s Warning

<a name="3:1">3:1</a> The Lord said to Jonah a second time, <a name="3:2">3:2</a> “Go immediately to Nineveh, that large city, and proclaim to it the message that I tell you.” <a name="3:3">3:3</a> So Jonah went immediately to Nineveh, as the Lord had said. (Now Nineveh was an enormous city — it required three days to walk throughout it!) <a name="3:4">3:4</a> When Jonah began to enter the city one day’s walk, he announced, “At the end of forty days, Nineveh will be overthrown!”

<a name="3:5">3:5</a> The people of Nineveh believed in God, and they declared a fast and put on sackcloth, from the greatest to the least of them. <a name="3:6">3:6</a> When the news reached the king of Nineveh, he rose from his throne, took off his royal robe, put on sackcloth, and sat on ashes. <a name="3:7">3:7</a> He issued a proclamation and said, “In Nineveh, by the decree of the king and his nobles — Let neither human nor animal, cattle nor sheep, taste anything; let them not eat and let them not drink water. <a name="3:8">3:8</a> Let every person and animal put on sackcloth and let them cry earnestly to God, and let every one turn from their evil way of living and from the violence that they do. <a name="3:9">3:9</a> Who knows? Perhaps God might be willing to change his mind and relent and turn from his fierce anger so that we might not die.” <a name="3:10">3:10</a> When God saw their actions — they turned from their evil way of living! — God relented concerning the judgment he had threatened them with and he did not destroy them.
