---
title: 02
parent: Nahum
other: x
---

## Proclamation of the Destruction of Nineveh

<a name="2:1">2:1</a> The watchmen of Nineveh shout:

“An enemy who will scatter you is marching out to attack you!”
“Guard the rampart!
Watch the road!
Prepare yourselves for battle!
Muster your mighty strength!”
<a name="2:2">2:2</a> For the Lord will restore the majesty of Jacob,
as well as the majesty of Israel,
though their enemies have plundered them
and have destroyed their fields.

## Prophetic Vision of the Fall of Nineveh

<a name="2:3">2:3</a> The shields of his warriors are dyed red;
the mighty soldiers are dressed in scarlet garments.
The metal fittings of the chariots shine like fire on the day of battle;
the soldiers brandish their spears.
<a name="2:4">2:4</a> The chariots race madly through the streets,
they rush back and forth in the broad plazas;
they look like lightning bolts,
they dash here and there like flashes of lightning.
<a name="2:5">2:5</a> The commander orders his officers;
they stumble as they advance;
they rush to the city wall
and they set up the covered siege tower.
<a name="2:6">2:6</a> The sluice gates are opened;
the royal palace is deluged and dissolves.
<a name="2:7">2:7</a> Nineveh is taken into exile and is led away;
her slave girls moan like doves while they beat their breasts.
<a name="2:8">2:8</a> Nineveh was like a pool of water throughout her days,
but now her people are running away;
she cries out: “Stop! Stop!” — 
but no one turns back.
<a name="2:9">2:9</a> Her conquerors cry out:
“Plunder the silver! Plunder the gold!”
There is no end to the treasure;
riches of every kind of precious thing.
<a name="2:10">2:10</a> Destruction, devastation, and desolation!
Their hearts faint,
their knees tremble,
each stomach churns, each face turns pale!

## Taunt against the Once-Mighty Lion

<a name="2:11">2:11</a> Where now is the den of the lions,
the feeding place of the young lions,
where the lion, lioness, and lion cub once prowled
and no one disturbed them?
<a name="2:12">2:12</a> The lion tore apart as much prey as his cubs needed
and strangled prey to provide food for his lionesses;
he filled his lairs with prey
and his dens with torn flesh.

## Battle Cry of the Divine Warrior

<a name="2:13">2:13</a> “I am against you!” declares the Lord who leads armies:
“I will burn your chariots with fire;
the sword will devour your young lions;
you will no longer prey upon the land;
the voices of your messengers will no longer be heard.”
