---
title: 13
parent: 1 Samuel
other: x
---


## Saul Fails the Lord

<a name="13:1">13:1</a> Saul was [thirty] years old when he began to reign; he ruled over Israel for [forty] years. <a name="13:2">13:2</a> Saul selected for himself three thousand men from Israel. Two thousand of these were with Saul at Micmash and in the hill country of Bethel; the remaining thousand were with Jonathan at Gibeah of Benjamin. He sent all the rest of the people back home.

<a name="13:3">13:3</a> Jonathan attacked the Philistine outpost that was at Geba and the Philistines heard about it. Then Saul alerted all the land saying, “Let the Hebrews pay attention!” <a name="13:4">13:4</a> All Israel heard this message, “Saul has attacked the Philistine outpost, and now Israel is repulsive to the Philistines.” So the people were summoned to join Saul at Gilgal.

<a name="13:5">13:5</a> For the battle with Israel the Philistines had amassed three thousand chariots, six thousand horsemen, and an army as numerous as the sand on the seashore. They went up and camped at Micmash, east of Beth Aven. <a name="13:6">13:6</a> The men of Israel realized they had a problem because their army was hard pressed. So the army hid in caves, thickets, cliffs, strongholds, and cisterns. <a name="13:7">13:7</a> Some of the Hebrews crossed over the Jordan River to the land of Gad and Gilead. But Saul stayed at Gilgal; the entire army that was with him was terrified. <a name="13:8">13:8</a> He waited for seven days, the time period indicated by Samuel. But Samuel did not come to Gilgal, and the army began to abandon Saul.

<a name="13:9">13:9</a> So Saul said, “Bring me the burnt offering and the peace offerings.” Then he offered a burnt offering. <a name="13:10">13:10</a> When he had finished offering the burnt offering, Samuel appeared on the scene. Saul went out to meet him and to greet him.

<a name="13:11">13:11</a> But Samuel said, “What have you done?” Saul replied, “When I saw that the army had started to abandon me and that you didn’t come at the appointed time and that the Philistines had assembled at Micmash, <a name="13:12">13:12</a> I thought, ‘Now the Philistines will come down on me at Gilgal and I have not sought the Lord’s favor.’ So I was compelled to offer the burnt offering.”

<a name="13:13">13:13</a> Then Samuel said to Saul, “You have made a foolish choice! You have not obeyed the commandment that the Lord your God gave you. Had you done that, the Lord would have established your kingdom over Israel forever. <a name="13:14">13:14</a> But now your kingdom will not continue. The Lord has sought out for himself a man who is loyal to him and the Lord has appointed him to be leader over his people, for you have not obeyed what the Lord commanded you.”

<a name="13:15">13:15</a> Then Samuel set out and went up from Gilgal to Gibeah of Benjamin. Saul mustered the army that remained with him; there were about six hundred men. <a name="13:16">13:16</a> Saul, his son Jonathan, and the army that remained with them stayed in Gibeah of Benjamin, while the Philistines camped in Micmash. <a name="13:17">13:17</a> Raiding bands went out from the camp of the Philistines in three groups. One band turned toward the road leading to Ophrah by the land of Shual; <a name="13:18">13:18</a> another band turned toward the road leading to Beth Horon; and yet another band turned toward the road leading to the border that overlooks the valley of Zeboim in the direction of the desert.

<a name="13:19">13:19</a> A metalworker could not be found in all the land of Israel, for the Philistines had said, “This will prevent the Hebrews from making swords and spears.” <a name="13:20">13:20</a> So all Israel had to go down to the Philistines in order to get their plowshares, cutting instruments, axes, and sickles sharpened. <a name="13:21">13:21</a> They charged two-thirds of a shekel to sharpen plowshares and cutting instruments, and a third of a shekel to sharpen picks and axes, and to set oxgoads. <a name="13:22">13:22</a> So on the day of the battle no sword or spear was to be found in the hand of anyone in the army that was with Saul and Jonathan. No one but Saul and his son Jonathan had them.

## Jonathan Ignites a Battle

<a name="13:23">13:23</a> A garrison of the Philistines had gone out to the pass at Micmash.
