---
title: 17
parent: 2 Chronicles
other: x
---


## Jehoshaphat Becomes King

<a name="17:1">17:1</a> His son Jehoshaphat replaced him as king and solidified his rule over Israel. <a name="17:2">17:2</a> He placed troops in all of Judah’s fortified cities and posted garrisons throughout the land of Judah and in the cities of Ephraim that his father Asa had seized.

<a name="17:3">17:3</a> The Lord was with Jehoshaphat because he followed in his ancestor David’s footsteps at the beginning of his reign. He did not seek the Baals, <a name="17:4">17:4</a> but instead sought the God of his ancestors and obeyed his commands, unlike the Israelites. <a name="17:5">17:5</a> The Lord made his kingdom secure; all Judah brought tribute to Jehoshaphat, and he became very wealthy and greatly respected. <a name="17:6">17:6</a> He was committed to following the Lord; he even removed the high places and Asherah poles from Judah.

<a name="17:7">17:7</a> In the third year of his reign he sent his officials Ben-Hail, Obadiah, Zechariah, Nethanel, and Micaiah to teach in the cities of Judah. <a name="17:8">17:8</a> They were accompanied by the Levites Shemaiah, Nethaniah, Zebadiah, Asahel, Shemiramoth, Jehonathan, Adonijah, Tobijah, and Tob-Adonijah, and by the priests Elishama and Jehoram. <a name="17:9">17:9</a> They taught throughout Judah, taking with them the scroll of the law of the Lord. They traveled to all the cities of Judah and taught the people.

<a name="17:10">17:10</a> The Lord put fear into all the kingdoms surrounding Judah; they did not make war with Jehoshaphat. <a name="17:11">17:11</a> Some of the Philistines brought Jehoshaphat tribute, including a load of silver. The Arabs brought him seventy-seven hundred rams and seventy-seven hundred goats from their flocks.

<a name="17:12">17:12</a> Jehoshaphat’s power kept increasing. He built fortresses and storage cities throughout Judah. <a name="17:13">17:13</a> He had many supplies stored in the cities of Judah and an army of skilled warriors stationed in Jerusalem. <a name="17:14">17:14</a> These were their divisions by families:

There were a thousand officers from Judah. Adnah the commander led 300,000 skilled warriors, <a name="17:15">17:15</a> Jehochanan the commander led 280,000, <a name="17:16">17:16</a> and Amasiah son of Zichri, who volunteered to serve the Lord, led 200,000 skilled warriors.

<a name="17:17">17:17</a> From Benjamin, Eliada, a skilled warrior, led 200,000 men who were equipped with bows and shields, <a name="17:18">17:18</a> and Jehozabad led 180,000 trained warriors.

<a name="17:19">17:19</a> These were the ones who served the king, besides those whom the king placed in the fortified cities throughout Judah.