---
title: 01
parent: Timothy 1
other: x
---
<a name="1:1">1:1</a> From Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the command of God our Savior and of Christ Jesus our hope, <a name="1:2">1:2</a> to Timothy, my genuine child in the faith. Grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord!

## Timothy’s Task in Ephesus

<a name="1:3">1:3</a> As I urged you when I was leaving for Macedonia, stay on in Ephesus to instruct certain people not to spread false teachings, <a name="1:4">1:4</a> nor to occupy themselves with myths and interminable genealogies. Such things promote useless speculations rather than God’s redemptive plan that operates by faith. <a name="1:5">1:5</a> But the aim of our instruction is love that comes from a pure heart, a good conscience, and a sincere faith. <a name="1:6">1:6</a> Some have strayed from these and turned away to empty discussion. <a name="1:7">1:7</a> They want to be teachers of the law, but they do not understand what they are saying or the things they insist on so confidently.

<a name="1:8">1:8</a> But we know that the law is good if someone uses it legitimately, <a name="1:9">1:9</a> realizing that law is not intended for a righteous person, but for lawless and rebellious people, for the ungodly and sinners, for the unholy and profane, for those who kill their fathers or mothers, for murderers, <a name="1:10">1:10</a> sexually immoral people, practicing homosexuals, kidnappers, liars, perjurers — in fact, for any who live contrary to sound teaching. <a name="1:11">1:11</a> This accords with the glorious gospel of the blessed God that was entrusted to me.

<a name="1:12">1:12</a> I am grateful to the one who has strengthened me, Christ Jesus our Lord, because he considered me faithful in putting me into ministry, <a name="1:13">1:13</a> even though I was formerly a blasphemer and a persecutor, and an arrogant man. But I was treated with mercy because I acted ignorantly in unbelief, <a name="1:14">1:14</a> and our Lord’s grace was abundant, bringing faith and love in Christ Jesus. <a name="1:15">1:15</a> This saying is trustworthy and deserves full acceptance: “Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners” — and I am the worst of them! <a name="1:16">1:16</a> But here is why I was treated with mercy: so that in me as the worst, Christ Jesus could demonstrate his utmost patience, as an example for those who are going to believe in him for eternal life. <a name="1:17">1:17</a> Now to the eternal king, immortal, invisible, the only God, be honor and glory forever and ever! Amen.

<a name="1:18">1:18</a> I put this charge before you, Timothy my child, in keeping with the prophecies once spoken about you, in order that with such encouragement you may fight the good fight. <a name="1:19">1:19</a> To do this you must hold firmly to faith and a good conscience, which some have rejected and so have suffered shipwreck in regard to the faith. <a name="1:20">1:20</a> Among these are Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I handed over to Satan to be taught not to blaspheme.
