---
title: 03
parent: Timothy 1
other: x
---
## Qualifications for Overseers and Deacons

<a name="3:1">3:1</a> This saying is trustworthy: “If someone aspires to the office of overseer, he desires a good work.” <a name="3:2">3:2</a> The overseer then must be above reproach, the husband of one wife, temperate, self-controlled, respectable, hospitable, an able teacher, <a name="3:3">3:3</a> not a drunkard, not violent, but gentle, not contentious, free from the love of money. <a name="3:4">3:4</a> He must manage his own household well and keep his children in control without losing his dignity. <a name="3:5">3:5</a> But if someone does not know how to manage his own household, how will he care for the church of God? <a name="3:6">3:6</a> He must not be a recent convert or he may become arrogant and fall into the punishment that the devil will exact. <a name="3:7">3:7</a> And he must be well thought of by those outside the faith, so that he may not fall into disgrace and be caught by the devil’s trap.

<a name="3:8">3:8</a> Deacons likewise must be dignified, not two-faced, not given to excessive drinking, not greedy for gain, <a name="3:9">3:9</a> holding to the mystery of the faith with a clear conscience. <a name="3:10">3:10</a> And these also must be tested first and then let them serve as deacons if they are found blameless. <a name="3:11">3:11</a> Likewise also their wives must be dignified, not slanderous, temperate, faithful in every respect. <a name="3:12">3:12</a> Deacons must be husbands of one wife and good managers of their children and their own households. <a name="3:13">3:13</a> For those who have served well as deacons gain a good standing for themselves and great boldness in the faith that is in Christ Jesus.

## Conduct in God’s Church

<a name="3:14">3:14</a> I hope to come to you soon, but I am writing these instructions to you <a name="3:15">3:15</a> in case I am delayed, to let you know how people ought to conduct themselves in the household of God, because it is the church of the living God, the support and bulwark of the truth. <a name="3:16">3:16</a> And we all agree, our religion contains amazing revelation:

> He was revealed in the flesh,
> vindicated by the Spirit,
> seen by angels,
> proclaimed among Gentiles,
> believed on in the world,
> taken up in glory.
