---
title: 04
parent: Timothy 1
other: x
---
Timothy’s Ministry in the Later Times

<a name="4:1">4:1</a> Now the Spirit explicitly says that in the later times some will desert the faith and occupy themselves with deceiving spirits and demonic teachings, <a name="4:2">4:2</a> influenced by the hypocrisy of liars whose consciences are seared. <a name="4:3">4:3</a> They will prohibit marriage and require abstinence from foods that God created to be received with thanksgiving by those who believe and know the truth. <a name="4:4">4:4</a> For every creation of God is good and no food is to be rejected if it is received with thanksgiving. <a name="4:5">4:5</a> For it is sanctified by God’s word and by prayer.

<a name="4:6">4:6</a> By pointing out such things to the brothers and sisters, you will be a good servant of Christ Jesus, having nourished yourself on the words of the faith and of the good teaching that you have followed. <a name="4:7">4:7</a> But reject those myths fit only for the godless and gullible, and train yourself for godliness. <a name="4:8">4:8</a> For “physical exercise has some value, but godliness is valuable in every way. It holds promise for the present life and for the life to come.” <a name="4:9">4:9</a> This saying is trustworthy and deserves full acceptance. <a name="4:10">4:10</a> In fact this is why we work hard and struggle, because we have set our hope on the living God, who is the Savior of all people, especially of believers.

<a name="4:11">4:11</a> Command and teach these things. <a name="4:12">4:12</a> Let no one look down on you because you are young, but set an example for the believers in your speech, conduct, love, faithfulness, and purity. <a name="4:13">4:13</a> Until I come, give attention to the public reading of scripture, to exhortation, to teaching. <a name="4:14">4:14</a> Do not neglect the spiritual gift you have, given to you and confirmed by prophetic words when the elders laid hands on you. <a name="4:15">4:15</a> Take pains with these things; be absorbed in them, so that everyone will see your progress. <a name="4:16">4:16</a> Be conscientious about how you live and what you teach. Persevere in this, because by doing so you will save both yourself and those who listen to you.
