---
title: 02
parent: Micah
other: x
---

## Land Robbers Will Lose their Land

<a>2:1</a> Those who devise sinful plans are as good as dead,
those who dream about doing evil as they lie in bed.
As soon as morning arrives they carry out their plans,
because they have the power to do so.

<a>2:2</a> They confiscate the fields they desire,
and seize the houses they want.
They defraud a man of his home,
and deprive a man of the land he has inherited.

<a>2:3</a> Therefore the Lord says this:

“Look, I am devising disaster for this nation.
It will be like a yoke from which you can’t remove your neck.
You will no longer walk proudly,
for it will be a time of catastrophe.

<a>2:4</a> In that day people will sing this taunt song to you — 
they will mock you with this lament:
‘We are completely destroyed;
they sell off the property of my people.
How they remove it from me!
They assign our fields to the conqueror.’

<a>2:5</a> Therefore no one will assign you land in the Lord’s community.

<a>2:6</a> ‘Don’t preach with such impassioned rhetoric,’ they say excitedly.
‘These prophets should not preach of such things;
we will not be overtaken by humiliation.’

<a>2:7</a> Does the family of Jacob say,
‘The Lord’s patience can’t be exhausted,
he would never do such things’?
My commands bring a reward
for those who obey them,

<a>2:8</a> but you rise up as an enemy against my people.
You steal a robe from a friend
from those who pass by peacefully as if returning from a war.

<a>2:9</a> You force the women among my people to leave their pleasant homes.
You permanently deprive their children of the land I gave them.

<a>2:10</a> Get up and leave, for this land is not secure!
Sin will thoroughly destroy it!

<a>2:11</a> If a lying windbag should come and say,
‘I’ll promise you wine and beer,’
he would be just the right preacher for these people!

## The Lord Will Restore His People

<a>2:12</a> I will certainly gather all of you, O Jacob,
I will certainly assemble those Israelites who remain.
I will bring them together like sheep in a fold,
like a flock in the middle of a pasture;
and there will be so many of them they will make a great deal of noise.

<a>2:13</a> The one who can break through barriers will lead them out
they will break out, pass through the gate, and leave.
Their king will advance before them,
The Lord himself will lead them.
