---
title: 02
parent: Nehemiah
other: x
---

## Nehemiah Is Permitted to Go to Jerusalem

<a name="2:1">2:1</a> Then in the month of Nisan, in the twentieth year of King Artaxerxes, when wine was brought to me, I took the wine and gave it to the king. Previously I had not been depressed in the king’s presence. <a name="2:2">2:2</a> So the king said to me, “Why do you appear to be depressed when you aren’t sick? What can this be other than sadness of heart?” This made me very fearful.

<a name="2:3">2:3</a> I replied to the king, “O king, live forever! Why would I not be dejected in appearance when the city with the graves of my ancestors lies desolate and its gates destroyed by fire?” <a name="2:4">2:4</a> The king responded, “What is it you are seeking?” Then I quickly prayed to the God of heaven <a name="2:5">2:5</a> and said to the king, “If the king is so inclined and if your servant has found favor in your sight, dispatch me to Judah, to the city with the graves of my ancestors, so that I can rebuild it.” <a name="2:6">2:6</a> Then the king, with his consort sitting beside him, replied, “How long would your trip take, and when would you return?” Since the king was amenable to dispatching me, I gave him a time. <a name="2:7">2:7</a> I said to the king, “If the king is so inclined, let him give me letters for the governors of Trans-Euphrates that will enable me to travel safely until I reach Judah, <a name="2:8">2:8</a> and a letter for Asaph the keeper of the king’s nature preserve, so that he will give me timber for beams for the gates of the fortress adjacent to the temple and for the wall of the city and for the home to which I go.” So the king granted me these provisions, for the good hand of my God was on me. <a name="2:9">2:9</a> Then I went to the governors of Trans-Euphrates, and I presented to them the letters from the king. The king had sent with me officers of the army and horsemen. <a name="2:10">2:10</a> When Sanballat the Horonite and Tobiah the Ammonite servant heard all this, they were very displeased that someone had come to seek benefit for the Israelites.

## Nehemiah Arrives in Jerusalem

<a name="2:11">2:11</a> So I came to Jerusalem. When I had been there for three days, <a name="2:12">2:12</a> I got up during the night, along with a few men who were with me. But I did not tell anyone what my God was putting on my heart to do for Jerusalem. There were no animals with me, except for the one I was riding. <a name="2:13">2:13</a> I proceeded through the Valley Gate by night, in the direction of the Well of the Dragons and the Dung Gate, and I was inspecting the walls of Jerusalem that had been breached and its gates that had been destroyed by fire. <a name="2:14">2:14</a> I passed on to the Gate of the Well and the King’s Pool, where there was insufficient space for my animal to pass with me. <a name="2:15">2:15</a> I continued up the valley during the night, inspecting the wall. Then I turned and came to the Valley Gate, and so returned. <a name="2:16">2:16</a> The officials did not know where I had gone or what I had been doing, for up to this point I had not told any of the Jews or the priests or the nobles or the officials or the rest of the workers. <a name="2:17">2:17</a> Then I said to them, “You see the problem that we have: Jerusalem is desolate and its gates are burned. Come on! Let’s rebuild the wall of Jerusalem so that this reproach will not continue.” <a name="2:18">2:18</a> Then I related to them how the good hand of my God was on me and what the king had said to me. Then they replied, “Get going! Let’s rebuild!” So they readied themselves for this good project. <a name="2:19">2:19</a> But when Sanballat the Horonite, Tobiah the Ammonite servant, and Geshem the Arab heard all this, they derided us and expressed contempt toward us. They said, “What is this you are doing? Are you rebelling against the king?” <a name="2:20">2:20</a> I responded to them by saying, “The God of heaven will prosper us. We his servants will start the rebuilding. But you have no just or ancient right in Jerusalem.”
