---
title: 11
parent: Job
other: x
---


## Zophar’s First Speech to Job 

<a name="11:1">11:1</a> Then Zophar the Naamathite spoke up and said:

> <a name="11:2">11:2</a> “Should not this abundance of words be answered,
> or should this talkative man
> be vindicated?
> <a name="11:3">11:3</a> Will your idle talk reduce people to silence,
> and will no one rebuke you when you mock?
> <a name="11:4">11:4</a> For you have said, ‘My teaching is flawless,
> and I am pure in your sight.’
> <a name="11:5">11:5</a> But O that God would speak,
> that he would open his lips against you,
> <a name="11:6">11:6</a> and reveal to you the secrets of wisdom,
> for true wisdom has two sides,
> so that you would know
> that God has forgiven some of your sins.
> <a name="11:7">11:7</a> “Can you discover the essence of God?
> Can you find out
> the perfection of the Almighty?
> <a name="11:8">11:8</a> It is higher than the heavens — what can you do?
> It is deeper than Sheol — what can you know?
> <a name="11:9">11:9</a> Its measure is longer than the earth,
> and broader than the sea.
> <a name="11:10">11:10</a> If he comes by and confines you
> and convenes a court,
> then who can prevent him?
> <a name="11:11">11:11</a> For he knows deceitful men;
> when he sees evil, will he not consider it?
> <a name="11:12">11:12</a> But an empty man will become wise,
> when a wild donkey colt is born a human being.
> <a name="11:13">11:13</a> “As for you, if you prove faithful,
> and if you stretch out your hands toward him,
> <a name="11:14">11:14</a> if iniquity is in your hand — put it far away,
> and do not let evil reside in your tents.
> <a name="11:15">11:15</a> For then you will lift up your face
> without blemish;
> you will be securely established
> and will not fear.
> <a name="11:16">11:16</a> For you will forget your trouble;
> you will remember it
> like water that has flowed away.
> <a name="11:17">11:17</a> And life will be brighter than the noonday;
> though there be darkness,
> it will be like the morning.
> <a name="11:18">11:18</a> And you will be secure, because there is hope;
> you will be protected
> and will take your rest in safety.
> <a name="11:19">11:19</a> You will lie down with no one making you afraid,
> and many will seek your favor.
> <a name="11:20">11:20</a> But the eyes of the wicked fail,
> and escape eludes them;
> their hope is to breathe their last.”