---
title: 13
parent: Job
other: x
---


## Job Pleads His Cause to God 

> <a name="13:1">13:1</a> “Indeed, my eye has seen all this,
> my ear has heard and understood it.
> <a name="13:2">13:2</a> What you know, I know also;
> I am not inferior to you.
> <a name="13:3">13:3</a> But I wish to speak to the Almighty,
> and I desire to argue my case with God.
> <a name="13:4">13:4</a> But you, however, are inventors of lies;
> all of you are worthless physicians!
> <a name="13:5">13:5</a> O that you would keep completely silent!
> For you that would be wisdom.
> <a name="13:6">13:6</a> “Listen now to my argument,
> and be attentive to my lips’ contentions.
> <a name="13:7">13:7</a> Will you speak wickedly on God’s behalf?
> Will you speak deceitfully for him?
> <a name="13:8">13:8</a> Will you show him partiality?
> Will you argue the case for God?
> <a name="13:9">13:9</a> Would it turn out well if he would examine you?
> Or as one deceives a man would you deceive him?
> <a name="13:10">13:10</a> He would certainly rebuke you
> if you secretly showed partiality.
> <a name="13:11">13:11</a> Would not his splendor terrify you
> and the fear he inspires fall on you?
> <a name="13:12">13:12</a> Your maxims are proverbs of ashes;
> your defenses are defenses of clay.
> <a name="13:13">13:13</a> “Refrain from talking with me so that I may speak;
> then let come upon me what may.
> <a name="13:14">13:14</a> Why do I put myself in jeopardy,
> and take my life in my hands?
> <a name="13:15">13:15</a> If he slays me, I will hope in him;
> I will surely defend my ways to his face!
> <a name="13:16">13:16</a> Moreover, this will become my deliverance,
> for no godless person would come before him.
> <a name="13:17">13:17</a> Listen carefully to my words;
> let your ears be attentive to my explanation.
> <a name="13:18">13:18</a> See now, I have prepared my case;
> I know that I am right.
> <a name="13:19">13:19</a> Who will contend with me?
> If so, I will be silent and die.
> <a name="13:20">13:20</a> Only in two things spare me, O God,
> and then I will not hide from your face:
> <a name="13:21">13:21</a> Remove your hand far from me
> and stop making me afraid with your terror.
> <a name="13:22">13:22</a> Then call, and I will answer,
> or I will speak, and you respond to me.
> <a name="13:23">13:23</a> How many are my iniquities and sins?
> Show me my transgression and my sin.
> <a name="13:24">13:24</a> Why do you hide your face
> and regard me as your enemy?
> <a name="13:25">13:25</a> Do you wish to torment a windblown leaf
> and chase after dry chaff?
> <a name="13:26">13:26</a> For you write down bitter things against me
> and cause me to inherit the sins of my youth.
> <a name="13:27">13:27</a> And you put my feet in the stocks
> and you watch all my movements;
> you put marks on the soles of my feet.
> <a name="13:28">13:28</a> So man wastes away like something rotten,
> like a garment eaten by moths.