---
title: 14
parent: Job
other: x
---


## The Brevity of Life 

> <a name="14:1">14:1</a> “Man, born of woman,
> lives but a few days, and full of trouble.
> <a name="14:2">14:2</a> He comes up like a flower and then withers away;
> he flees like a shadow, and does not remain.
> <a name="14:3">14:3</a> Do you open your eye on such a one?
> And do you bring me before you for judgment?
> <a name="14:4">14:4</a> Who can make a clean thing come from an unclean?
> No one!
> <a name="14:5">14:5</a> Since man’s days are determined,
> the number of his months is under your control;
> you have set his limit and he cannot pass it.
> <a name="14:6">14:6</a> Look away from him and let him desist,
> until he fulfills his time like a hired man.

## The Inevitability of Death

> <a name="14:7">14:7</a> “But there is hope for a tree:
> If it is cut down, it will sprout again,
> and its new shoots will not fail.
> <a name="14:8">14:8</a> Although its roots may grow old in the ground
> and its stump begins to die in the soil,
> <a name="14:9">14:9</a> at the scent of water it will flourish
> and put forth shoots like a new plant.
> <a name="14:10">14:10</a> But man dies and is powerless;
> he expires — and where is he?
> <a name="14:11">14:11</a> As water disappears from the sea,
> or a river drains away and dries up,
> <a name="14:12">14:12</a> so man lies down and does not rise;
> until the heavens are no more,
> they will not awake
> nor arise from their sleep.

## The Possibility of Another Life

> <a name="14:13">14:13</a> “O that you would hide me in Sheol,
> and conceal me till your anger has passed!
> O that you would set me a time
> and then remember me!
> <a name="14:14">14:14</a> If a man dies, will he live again?
> All the days of my hard service I will wait
> until my release comes.
> <a name="14:15">14:15</a> You will call and I — I will answer you;
> you will long for the creature you have made.

## The Present Condition

> <a name="14:16">14:16</a> “Surely now you count my steps;
> then you would not mark my sin.
> <a name="14:17">14:17</a> My offenses would be sealed up in a bag;
> you would cover over my sin.
> <a name="14:18">14:18</a> But as a mountain falls away and crumbles,
> and as a rock will be removed from its place,
> <a name="14:19">14:19</a> as water wears away stones,
> and torrents wash away the soil,
> so you destroy man’s hope.
> <a name="14:20">14:20</a> You overpower him once for all,
> and he departs;
> you change his appearance
> and send him away.
> <a name="14:21">14:21</a> If his sons are honored,
> he does not know it;
> if they are brought low,
> he does not see it.
> <a name="14:22">14:22</a> Only his flesh has pain for himself,
> and he mourns for himself.”