---
title: 15
parent: Job
other: x
---


## Eliphaz’s Second Speech 

<a name="15:1">15:1</a> Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered:

> <a name="15:2">15:2</a> “Does a wise man answer with blustery knowledge,
> or fill his belly with the east wind?
> <a name="15:3">15:3</a> Does he argue with useless talk,
> with words that have no value in them?
> <a name="15:4">15:4</a> But you even break off piety,
> and hinder meditation before God.
> <a name="15:5">15:5</a> Your sin inspires your mouth;
> you choose the language of the crafty.
> <a name="15:6">15:6</a> Your own mouth condemns you, not I;
> your lips testify against you.
> <a name="15:7">15:7</a> “Were you the first man ever born?
> Were you brought forth before the hills?
> <a name="15:8">15:8</a> Do you listen in God’s council?
> Do you limit wisdom to yourself?
> <a name="15:9">15:9</a> What do you know that we do not know?
> What do you understand that is not understood by us?
> <a name="15:10">15:10</a> The gray-haired and the aged are on our side,
> men far older than your father.
> <a name="15:11">15:11</a> Are God’s consolations too trivial for you;
> or a word spoken in gentleness to you?
> <a name="15:12">15:12</a> Why has your heart carried you away,
> and why do your eyes flash,
> <a name="15:13">15:13</a> when you turn your rage against God
> and allow such words to proceed from your mouth?
> <a name="15:14">15:14</a> What is man that he should be pure,
> or one born of woman, that he should be righteous?
> <a name="15:15">15:15</a> If God places no trust in his holy ones,
> if even the heavens are not pure in his eyes,
> <a name="15:16">15:16</a> how much less man, who is abominable and corrupt,
> who drinks in evil like water!
> <a name="15:17">15:17</a> “I will explain to you; listen to me,
> and what I have seen, I will declare,
> <a name="15:18">15:18</a> what wise men declare,
> hiding nothing,
> from the tradition of their ancestors,
> <a name="15:19">15:19</a> to whom alone the land was given
> when no foreigner passed among them.
> <a name="15:20">15:20</a> All his days the wicked man suffers torment,
> throughout the number of the years
> that are stored up for the tyrant.
> <a name="15:21">15:21</a> Terrifying sounds fill his ears;
> in a time of peace marauders attack him.
> <a name="15:22">15:22</a> He does not expect to escape from darkness;
> he is marked for the sword;
> <a name="15:23">15:23</a> he wanders about — food for vultures;
> he knows that the day of darkness is at hand.
> <a name="15:24">15:24</a> Distress and anguish terrify him;
> they prevail against him
> like a king ready for attack,
> <a name="15:25">15:25</a> for he stretches out his hand against God,
> and vaunts himself against the Almighty,
> <a name="15:26">15:26</a> defiantly charging against him
> with a thick, strong shield!
> <a name="15:27">15:27</a> Because he covered his face with fat,
> and made his hips fat,
> <a name="15:28">15:28</a> he lived in ruined towns
> and in houses where no one lives,
> where they are ready to crumble into heaps.
> <a name="15:29">15:29</a> He will not grow rich,
> and his wealth will not endure,
> nor will his possessions spread over the land.
> <a name="15:30">15:30</a> He will not escape the darkness;
> a flame will wither his shoots
> and he will depart
> by the breath of God’s mouth.
> <a name="15:31">15:31</a> Let him not trust in what is worthless,
> deceiving himself;
> for worthlessness will be his reward.
> <a name="15:32">15:32</a> Before his time he will be paid in full,
> and his branches will not flourish.
> <a name="15:33">15:33</a> Like a vine he will let his sour grapes fall,
> and like an olive tree
> he will shed his blossoms.
> <a name="15:34">15:34</a> For the company of the godless is barren,
> and fire consumes the tents of those who accept bribes.
> <a name="15:35">15:35</a> They conceive trouble and bring forth evil;
> their belly prepares deception.”