---
title: 16
parent: Job
other: x
---


## Job’s Reply to Eliphaz 

<a name="16:1">16:1</a> Then Job replied:

> <a name="16:2">16:2</a> “I have heard many things like these before.
> Miserable comforters are you all!
> <a name="16:3">16:3</a> Will there be an end to your windy words?
> Or what provokes you that you answer?
> <a name="16:4">16:4</a> I also could speak like you,
> if you were in my place;
> I could pile up words against you
> and I could shake my head at you.
> <a name="16:5">16:5</a> But I would strengthen you with my words;
> comfort from my lips would bring you relief.

## Abandonment by God and Man

> <a name="16:6">16:6</a> “But if I speak, my pain is not assuaged,
> and if I refrain from speaking 
> — how much of it goes away?
> <a name="16:7">16:7</a> Surely now he has worn me out,
> you have devastated my entire household.
> <a name="16:8">16:8</a> You have seized me,
> and it has become a witness;
> my leanness has risen up against me
> and testifies against me.
> <a name="16:9">16:9</a> His anger has torn me and persecuted me;
> he has gnashed at me with his teeth;
> my adversary fastens his eyes on me.
> <a name="16:10">16:10</a> People have opened their mouths against me,
> they have struck my cheek in scorn;
> they unite together against me.
> <a name="16:11">16:11</a> God abandons me to evil men,
> and throws me into the hands of wicked men.
> <a name="16:12">16:12</a> I was in peace, and he has shattered me.
> He has seized me by the neck and crushed me.
> He has made me his target;
> <a name="16:13">16:13</a> his archers surround me.
> Without pity he pierces my kidneys
> and pours out my gall on the ground.
> <a name="16:14">16:14</a> He breaks through against me, time and time again;
> he rushes against me like a warrior.
> <a name="16:15">16:15</a> I have sewed sackcloth on my skin,
> and buried my horn in the dust;
> <a name="16:16">16:16</a> my face is reddened because of weeping,
> and on my eyelids there is a deep darkness,
> <a name="16:17">16:17</a> although there is no violence in my hands
> and my prayer is pure.

## An Appeal to God as Witness

> <a name="16:18">16:18</a> “O earth, do not cover my blood,
> nor let there be a secret place for my cry.
> <a name="16:19">16:19</a> Even now my witness is in heaven;
> my advocate is on high.
> <a name="16:20">16:20</a> My intercessor is my friend
> as my eyes pour out tears to God;
> <a name="16:21">16:21</a> and he contends with God on behalf of man
> as a man pleads for his friend.
> <a name="16:22">16:22</a> For the years that lie ahead are few,
> and then I will go on the way of no return.