---
title: 20
parent: Job
other: x
---


## Zophar’s Second Speech 

<a name="20:1">20:1</a> Then Zophar the Naamathite answered:

> <a name="20:2">20:2</a> “This is why my troubled thoughts bring me back 
> — because of my feelings within me.
> <a name="20:3">20:3</a> When I hear a reproof that dishonors me,
> then my understanding prompts me to answer.
> <a name="20:4">20:4</a> “Surely you know that it has been from old,
> ever since mankind was placed on the earth,
> <a name="20:5">20:5</a> that the elation of the wicked is brief,
> the joy of the godless lasts but for a moment.
> <a name="20:6">20:6</a> Even though his stature reaches to the heavens
> and his head touches the clouds,
> <a name="20:7">20:7</a> he will perish forever, like his own excrement;
> those who used to see him will say, ‘Where is he?’
> <a name="20:8">20:8</a> Like a dream he flies away, never again to be found,
> and like a vision of the night he is put to flight.
> <a name="20:9">20:9</a> People who had seen him will not see him again,
> and the place where he was
> will recognize him no longer.
> <a name="20:10">20:10</a> His sons must recompense the poor;
> his own hands must return his wealth.
> <a name="20:11">20:11</a> His bones were full of his youthful vigor,
> but it will lie down with him in the dust.
> <a name="20:12">20:12</a> “If evil is sweet in his mouth
> and he hides it under his tongue,
> <a name="20:13">20:13</a> if he retains it for himself
> and does not let it go,
> and holds it fast in his mouth,
> <a name="20:14">20:14</a> his food is turned sour in his stomach;
> it becomes the venom of serpents within him.
> <a name="20:15">20:15</a> The wealth that he consumed he vomits up,
> God will make him throw it out of his belly.
> <a name="20:16">20:16</a> He sucks the poison of serpents;
> the fangs of a viper kill him.
> <a name="20:17">20:17</a> He will not look on the streams,
> the rivers, which are the torrents
> of honey and butter.
> <a name="20:18">20:18</a> He gives back the ill-gotten gain
> without assimilating it;
> he will not enjoy the wealth from his exchange.
> <a name="20:19">20:19</a> For he has oppressed the poor and abandoned them;
> he has seized a house which he did not build.
> <a name="20:20">20:20</a> For he knows no satisfaction in his appetite;
> he does not let anything he desires escape.
> <a name="20:21">20:21</a> “Nothing is left for him to devour;
> that is why his prosperity does not last.
> <a name="20:22">20:22</a> In the fullness of his sufficiency,
> distress overtakes him.
> the full force of misery will come upon him.
> <a name="20:23">20:23</a> “While he is filling his belly,
> God sends his burning anger against him,
> and rains down his blows upon him.
> <a name="20:24">20:24</a> If he flees from an iron weapon,
> then an arrow from a bronze bow pierces him.
> <a name="20:25">20:25</a> When he pulls it out and it comes out of his back,
> the gleaming point out of his liver,
> terrors come over him.
> <a name="20:26">20:26</a> Total darkness waits to receive his treasures;
> a fire which has not been kindled
> will consume him
> and devour what is left in his tent.
> <a name="20:27">20:27</a> The heavens reveal his iniquity;
> the earth rises up against him.
> <a name="20:28">20:28</a> A flood will carry off his house,
> rushing waters on the day of God’s wrath.
> <a name="20:29">20:29</a> Such is the lot God allots the wicked,
> and the heritage of his appointment from God.”