---
title: 23
parent: Job
other: x
---


## Job’s Reply to Eliphaz 

<a name="23:1">23:1</a> Then Job answered:

> <a name="23:2">23:2</a> “Even today my complaint is still bitter;
> his hand is heavy despite my groaning.
> <a name="23:3">23:3</a> O that I knew where I might find him,
> that I could come to his place of residence!
> <a name="23:4">23:4</a> I would lay out my case before him
> and fill my mouth with arguments.
> <a name="23:5">23:5</a> I would know with what words he would answer me,
> and understand what he would say to me.
> <a name="23:6">23:6</a> Would he contend with me with great power?
> No, he would only pay attention to me.
> <a name="23:7">23:7</a> There an upright person
> could present his case before him,
> and I would be delivered forever from my judge.

## The Inaccessibility and Power of God

> <a name="23:8">23:8</a> “If I go to the east, he is not there,
> and to the west, yet I do not perceive him.
> <a name="23:9">23:9</a> In the north when he is at work,
> I do not see him;
> when he turns to the south,
> I see no trace of him.
> <a name="23:10">23:10</a> But he knows the pathway that I take;
> if he tested me, I would come forth like gold.
> <a name="23:11">23:11</a> My feet have followed his steps closely;
> I have kept to his way and have not turned aside.
> <a name="23:12">23:12</a> I have not departed from the commands of his lips;
> I have treasured the words of his mouth more than my allotted portion.
> <a name="23:13">23:13</a> But he is unchangeable, and who can change him?
> Whatever he has desired, he does.
> <a name="23:14">23:14</a> For he fulfills his decree against me,
> and many such things are his plans.
> <a name="23:15">23:15</a> That is why I am terrified in his presence;
> when I consider, I am afraid because of him.
> <a name="23:16">23:16</a> Indeed, God has made my heart faint;
> the Almighty has terrified me.
> <a name="23:17">23:17</a> Yet I have not been silent because of the darkness,
> because of the thick darkness
> that covered my face.