---
title: 24
parent: Job
other: x
---


## The Apparent Indifference of God 

> <a name="24:1">24:1</a> “Why are times not appointed by the Almighty?
> Why do those who know him not see his days?
> <a name="24:2">24:2</a> Men move boundary stones;
> they seize the flock and pasture them.
> <a name="24:3">24:3</a> They drive away the orphan’s donkey;
> they take the widow’s ox as a pledge.
> <a name="24:4">24:4</a> They turn the needy from the pathway,
> and the poor of the land hide themselves together.
> <a name="24:5">24:5</a> Like wild donkeys in the desert
> they go out to their labor,
> seeking diligently for food;
> the wasteland provides food for them
> and for their children.
> <a name="24:6">24:6</a> They reap fodder in the field,
> and glean in the vineyard of the wicked.
> <a name="24:7">24:7</a> They spend the night naked because they lack clothing;
> they have no covering against the cold.
> <a name="24:8">24:8</a> They are soaked by mountain rains
> and huddle in the rocks because they lack shelter.
> <a name="24:9">24:9</a> The fatherless child is snatched from the breast,
> the infant of the poor is taken as a pledge.
> <a name="24:10">24:10</a> They go about naked, without clothes,
> and go hungry while they carry the sheaves.
> <a name="24:11">24:11</a> They press out the oil among the olive rows;
> they tread the winepresses while they are thirsty.
> <a name="24:12">24:12</a> From the city the dying groan,
> and the wounded cry out for help,
> but God charges no one with wrongdoing.
> <a name="24:13">24:13</a> There are those who rebel against the light;
> they do not know its ways
> and they do not stay on its paths.
> <a name="24:14">24:14</a> Before daybreak the murderer rises up;
> he kills the poor and the needy;
> in the night he is like a thief.
> <a name="24:15">24:15</a> And the eye of the adulterer watches for the twilight,
> thinking, ‘No eye can see me,’
> and covers his face with a mask.
> <a name="24:16">24:16</a> In the dark the robber breaks into houses,
> but by day they shut themselves in;
> they do not know the light.
> <a name="24:17">24:17</a> For all of them, the morning is to them
> like deep darkness;
> they are friends with the terrors of darkness.
> <a name="24:18">24:18</a> “You say, ‘He is foam on the face of the waters;
> their portion of the land is cursed
> so that no one goes to their vineyard.
> <a name="24:19">24:19</a> The drought as well as the heat carry away
> the melted snow;
> so the grave takes away those who have sinned.
> <a name="24:20">24:20</a> The womb forgets him,
> the worm feasts on him,
> no longer will he be remembered.
> Like a tree, wickedness will be broken down.
> <a name="24:21">24:21</a> He preys on the barren and childless woman,
> and does not treat the widow well.
> <a name="24:22">24:22</a> But God drags off the mighty by his power;
> when God rises up against him, he has no faith in his life.
> <a name="24:23">24:23</a> God may let them rest in a feeling of security,
> but his eyes are on all their ways.
> <a name="24:24">24:24</a> They are exalted for a little while,
> and then they are gone,
> they are brought low like all others,
> and gathered in,
> and like a head of grain they are cut off.’
> <a name="24:25">24:25</a> “If this is not so, who can prove me a liar
> and reduce my words to nothing?”