---
title: 28
parent: Job
other: x
---


Job’s Search for Wisdom (<a name="28:1">28:1</a>-28)

## No Known Road to Wisdom 

> <a name="28:1">28:1</a> “Surely there is a mine for silver,
> and a place where gold is refined.
> <a name="28:2">28:2</a> Iron is taken from the ground,
> and rock is poured out as copper.
> <a name="28:3">28:3</a> Man puts an end to the darkness;
> he searches the farthest recesses
> for the ore in the deepest darkness.
> <a name="28:4">28:4</a> Far from where people live he sinks a shaft,
> in places travelers have long forgotten,
> far from other people he dangles and sways.
> <a name="28:5">28:5</a> The earth, from which food comes,
> is overturned below as though by fire;
> <a name="28:6">28:6</a> a place whose stones are sapphires
> and which contains dust of gold;
> <a name="28:7">28:7</a> a hidden path no bird of prey knows — 
> no falcon’s eye has spotted it.
> <a name="28:8">28:8</a> Proud beasts have not set foot on it,
> and no lion has passed along it.
> <a name="28:9">28:9</a> On the flinty rock man has set to work with his hand;
> he has overturned mountains at their bases.
> <a name="28:10">28:10</a> He has cut out channels through the rocks;
> his eyes have spotted every precious thing.
> <a name="28:11">28:11</a> He has searched the sources of the rivers
> and what was hidden he has brought into the light.

## No Price Can Buy Wisdom

> <a name="28:12">28:12</a> “But wisdom — where can it be found?
> Where is the place of understanding?
> <a name="28:13">28:13</a> Mankind does not know its place;
> it cannot be found in the land of the living.
> <a name="28:14">28:14</a> The deep says, ‘It is not with me.’
> And the sea says, ‘It is not with me.’
> <a name="28:15">28:15</a> Fine gold cannot be given in exchange for it,
> nor can its price be weighed out in silver.
> <a name="28:16">28:16</a> It cannot be measured out for purchase with the gold of Ophir,
> with precious onyx or sapphires.
> <a name="28:17">28:17</a> Neither gold nor crystal can be compared with it,
> nor can a vase of gold match its worth.
> <a name="28:18">28:18</a> Of coral and jasper no mention will be made;
> the price of wisdom is more than pearls.
> <a name="28:19">28:19</a> The topaz of Cush cannot be compared with it;
> it cannot be purchased with pure gold.

## God Alone Has Wisdom

> <a name="28:20">28:20</a> “But wisdom — from where does it come?
> Where is the place of understanding?
> <a name="28:21">28:21</a> For it has been hidden
> from the eyes of every living creature,
> and from the birds of the sky it has been concealed.
> <a name="28:22">28:22</a> Destruction and Death say,
> ‘With our ears we have heard a rumor about where it can be found.’
> <a name="28:23">28:23</a> God understands the way to it,
> and he alone knows its place.
> <a name="28:24">28:24</a> For he looks to the ends of the earth
> and observes everything under the heavens.
> <a name="28:25">28:25</a> When he made the force of the wind
> and measured the waters with a gauge.
> <a name="28:26">28:26</a> When he imposed a limit for the rain,
> and a path for the thunderstorm,
> <a name="28:27">28:27</a> then he looked at wisdom and assessed its value;
> he established it and examined it closely.
> <a name="28:28">28:28</a> And he said to mankind,
> ‘The fear of the Lord — that is wisdom,
> and to turn away from evil is understanding.’”