---
title: 3
parent: Job
other: x
---


Job’s Dialogue With His Friends (<a>3:1-27:33</a>)

## Job Regrets His Birth 

<a name="3:1">3:1</a> After this Job opened his mouth and cursed the day he was born. <a name="3:2">3:2</a> Job spoke up and said:

> <a name="3:3">3:3</a> “Let the day in which I was born perish,
> and the night that said,
> ‘A man has been conceived!’
> <a name="3:4">3:4</a> That day — let it be darkness;
> let not God on high regard it,
> nor let light shine on it!
> <a name="3:5">3:5</a> Let darkness and the shadow of death claim it;
> let a cloud settle on it;
> let whatever blackens the day terrify it!
> <a name="3:6">3:6</a> That night — let darkness seize it;
> let it not be included among the days of the year;
> let it not enter among the number of the months!
> <a name="3:7">3:7</a> Indeed, let that night be barren;
> let no shout of joy penetrate it!
> <a name="3:8">3:8</a> Let those who curse the day curse it — 
> those who are prepared to rouse Leviathan.
> <a name="3:9">3:9</a> Let its morning stars be darkened;
> let it wait for daylight but find none,
> nor let it see the first rays of dawn,
> <a name="3:10">3:10</a> because it did not shut the doors of my mother’s womb on me,
> nor did it hide trouble from my eyes!

## Job Wishes He Had Died at Birth

> <a name="3:11">3:11</a> “Why did I not die at birth,
> and why did I not expire
> when I came out of the womb?
> <a name="3:12">3:12</a> Why did the knees welcome me,
> and why were there two breasts
> that I might nurse at them?
> <a name="3:13">3:13</a> For now I would be lying down
> and would be quiet,
> I would be asleep and then at peace
> <a name="3:14">3:14</a> with kings and counselors of the earth
> who built for themselves places now desolate,
> <a name="3:15">3:15</a> or with princes who had gold,
> who filled their houses with silver.
> <a name="3:16">3:16</a> Or why was I not buried
> like a stillborn infant,
> like infants who have never seen the light?
> <a name="3:17">3:17</a> There the wicked cease from turmoil,
> and there the weary are at rest.
> <a name="3:18">3:18</a> There the prisoners rest together;
> they do not hear the voice of the oppressor.
> <a name="3:19">3:19</a> Small and great are there,
> and the slave is free from his master.

## Longing for Death

> <a name="3:20">3:20</a> “Why does God give light to one who is in misery,
> and life to those whose soul is bitter,
> <a name="3:21">3:21</a> to those who wait for death that does not come,
> and search for it
> more than for hidden treasures,
> <a name="3:22">3:22</a> who rejoice even to jubilation,
> and are exultant when they find the grave?
> <a name="3:23">3:23</a> Why is light given to a man
> whose way is hidden,
> and whom God has hedged in?
> <a name="3:24">3:24</a> For my sighing comes in place of my food,
> and my groanings flow forth like water.
> <a name="3:25">3:25</a> For the thing that I dreaded has happened to me,
> and what I feared has come upon me.
> <a name="3:26">3:26</a> I have no ease, I have no quietness;
> I cannot rest; turmoil has come upon me.”