---
title: 36
parent: Job
other: x
---


## Elihu’s Fourth Speech 

<a name="36:1">36:1</a> Elihu said further:

> <a name="36:2">36:2</a> “Be patient with me a little longer
> and I will instruct you,
> for I still have words to speak on God’s behalf.
> <a name="36:3">36:3</a> With my knowledge I will speak comprehensively,
> and to my Creator I will ascribe righteousness.
> <a name="36:4">36:4</a> For in truth, my words are not false;
> it is one complete in knowledge
> who is with you.
> <a name="36:5">36:5</a> Indeed, God is mighty; and he does not despise people,
> he is mighty, and firm in his intent.
> <a name="36:6">36:6</a> He does not allow the wicked to live,
> but he gives justice to the poor.
> <a name="36:7">36:7</a> He does not take his eyes off the righteous;
> but with kings on the throne
> he seats the righteous and exalts them forever.
> <a name="36:8">36:8</a> But if they are bound in chains,
> and held captive by the cords of affliction,
> <a name="36:9">36:9</a> then he reveals to them what they have done,
> and their transgressions,
> that they were dealing proudly.
> <a name="36:10">36:10</a> And he reveals this for correction,
> and says that they must turn from evil.
> <a name="36:11">36:11</a> If they obey and serve him,
> they live out their days in prosperity
> and their years in pleasantness.
> <a name="36:12">36:12</a> But if they refuse to listen,
> they pass over the river of death,
> and expire without knowledge.
> <a name="36:13">36:13</a> The godless at heart nourish anger,
> they do not cry out even when he binds them.
> <a name="36:14">36:14</a> They die in their youth,
> and their life ends among the male cultic prostitutes.
> <a name="36:15">36:15</a> He delivers the afflicted by their afflictions,
> he reveals himself to them by their suffering.
> <a name="36:16">36:16</a> And surely, he drew you from the mouth of distress,
> to a wide place, unrestricted,
> and to the comfort of your table
> filled with rich food.
> <a name="36:17">36:17</a> But now you are preoccupied with the judgment due the wicked,
> judgment and justice take hold of you.
> <a name="36:18">36:18</a> Be careful that no one entices you with riches;
> do not let a large bribe turn you aside.
> <a name="36:19">36:19</a> Would your wealth sustain you,
> so that you would not be in distress,
> even all your mighty efforts?
> <a name="36:20">36:20</a> Do not long for the cover of night
> to drag people away from their homes.
> <a name="36:21">36:21</a> Take heed, do not turn to evil,
> for because of this you have been tested by affliction.
> <a name="36:22">36:22</a> Indeed, God is exalted in his power;
> who is a teacher like him?
> <a name="36:23">36:23</a> Who has prescribed his ways for him?
> Or said to him, ‘You have done what is wicked’?
> <a name="36:24">36:24</a> Remember to extol his work,
> which people have praised in song.
> <a name="36:25">36:25</a> All humanity has seen it;
> people gaze on it from afar.

## The Work and Wisdom of God

> <a name="36:26">36:26</a> “Yes, God is great — beyond our knowledge!
> The number of his years is unsearchable.
> <a name="36:27">36:27</a> He draws up drops of water;
> they distill the rain into its mist,
> <a name="36:28">36:28</a> which the clouds pour down
> and shower on mankind abundantly.
> <a name="36:29">36:29</a> Who can understand the spreading of the clouds,
> the thunderings of his pavilion?
> <a name="36:30">36:30</a> See how he scattered his lightning about him;
> he has covered the depths of the sea.
> <a name="36:31">36:31</a> It is by these that he judges the nations
> and supplies food in abundance.
> <a name="36:32">36:32</a> With his hands he covers the lightning,
> and directs it against its target.
> <a name="36:33">36:33</a> His thunder announces the coming storm,
> the cattle also, concerning the storm’s approach.