---
title: 39
parent: Job
other: x
---


> <a name="39:1">39:1</a> “Are you acquainted with the way
> the mountain goats give birth?
> Do you watch as the wild deer give birth to their young?
> <a name="39:2">39:2</a> Do you count the months they must fulfill,
> and do you know the time they give birth?
> <a name="39:3">39:3</a> They crouch, they bear their young,
> they bring forth the offspring they have carried.
> <a name="39:4">39:4</a> Their young grow strong, and grow up in the open;
> they go off, and do not return to them.
> <a name="39:5">39:5</a> Who let the wild donkey go free?
> Who released the bonds of the donkey,
> <a name="39:6">39:6</a> to whom I appointed the steppe for its home,
> the salt wastes as its dwelling place?
> <a name="39:7">39:7</a> It scorns the tumult in the town;
> it does not hear the shouts of a driver.
> <a name="39:8">39:8</a> It ranges the hills as its pasture,
> and searches after every green plant.
> <a name="39:9">39:9</a> Is the wild ox willing to be your servant?
> Will it spend the night at your feeding trough?
> <a name="39:10">39:10</a> Can you bind the wild ox to a furrow with its rope,
> will it till the valleys, following after you?
> <a name="39:11">39:11</a> Will you rely on it because its strength is great?
> Will you commit your labor to it?
> <a name="39:12">39:12</a> Can you count on it to bring in your grain,
> and gather the grain to your threshing floor?
> <a name="39:13">39:13</a> “The wings of the ostrich flap with joy,
> but are they the pinions and plumage of a stork?
> <a name="39:14">39:14</a> For she leaves her eggs on the ground,
> and lets them be warmed on the soil.
> <a name="39:15">39:15</a> She forgets that a foot might crush them,
> or that a wild animal might trample them.
> <a name="39:16">39:16</a> She is harsh with her young,
> as if they were not hers;
> she is unconcerned
> about the uselessness of her labor.
> <a name="39:17">39:17</a> For God deprived her of wisdom,
> and did not impart understanding to her.
> <a name="39:18">39:18</a> But as soon as she springs up,
> she laughs at the horse and its rider.
> <a name="39:19">39:19</a> “Do you give the horse its strength?
> Do you clothe its neck with a mane?
> <a name="39:20">39:20</a> Do you make it leap like a locust?
> Its proud neighing is terrifying!
> <a name="39:21">39:21</a> It paws in the valley,
> exulting mightily,
> it goes out to meet the weapons.
> <a name="39:22">39:22</a> It laughs at fear and is not dismayed;
> it does not shy away from the sword.
> <a name="39:23">39:23</a> On it the quiver rattles;
> the lance and javelin flash.
> <a name="39:24">39:24</a> In excitement and impatience it consumes the ground;
> it cannot stand still when the trumpet is blown.
> <a name="39:25">39:25</a> At the sound of the trumpet, it says, ‘Aha!’
> And from a distance it catches the scent of battle,
> the thunder of commanders, and battle cries.
> <a name="39:26">39:26</a> “Is it by your understanding that the hawk soars,
> and spreads its wings toward the south?
> <a name="39:27">39:27</a> Is it at your command that the eagle soars,
> and builds its nest on high?
> <a name="39:28">39:28</a> It lives on a rock and spends the night there,
> on a rocky crag and a fortress.
> <a name="39:29">39:29</a> From there it spots its prey,
> its eyes gaze intently from a distance.
> <a name="39:30">39:30</a> And its young ones devour the blood,
> and where the dead carcasses are,
> there it is.”