---
title: 41
parent: Job
other: x
---


## The Description of Leviathan 

> <a name="41:1">41:1</a> ( <a name="40:25">40:25</a>) “Can you pull in Leviathan with a hook,
> and tie down its tongue with a rope?
> <a name="41:2">41:2</a> Can you put a cord through its nose,
> or pierce its jaw with a hook?
> <a name="41:3">41:3</a> Will it make numerous supplications to you,
> will it speak to you with tender words?
> <a name="41:4">41:4</a> Will it make a pact with you,
> so you could take it as your slave for life?
> <a name="41:5">41:5</a> Can you play with it, like a bird,
> or tie it up for your girls?
> <a name="41:6">41:6</a> Will partners bargain for it?
> Will they divide it up among the merchants?
> <a name="41:7">41:7</a> Can you fill its hide with harpoons
> or its head with fishing spears?
> <a name="41:8">41:8</a> If you lay your hand on it,
> you will remember the struggle,
> and you will not do it again!
> <a name="41:9">41:9</a> See, his expectation is wrong,
> he is laid low even at the sight of it.
> <a name="41:10">41:10</a> Is it not fierce when it is awakened?
> Who is he, then, who can stand before it?
> <a name="41:11">41:11</a> “Who has confronted me that I should repay?
> Everything under heaven belongs to me.
> <a name="41:12">41:12</a> “I will not keep silent about its limbs,
> and the extent of its might,
> and the grace of its arrangement.
> <a name="41:13">41:13</a> Who can uncover its outer covering?
> Who can penetrate to the inside of its armor?
> <a name="41:14">41:14</a> Who can open the doors of its mouth?
> Its teeth all around are fearsome.
> <a name="41:15">41:15</a> Its back has rows of shields,
> shut up closely together as with a seal;
> <a name="41:16">41:16</a> each one is so close to the next
> that no air can come between them.
> <a name="41:17">41:17</a> They lock tightly together, one to the next;
> they cling together and cannot be separated.
> <a name="41:18">41:18</a> Its snorting throws out flashes of light;
> its eyes are like the rays of dawn.
> <a name="41:19">41:19</a> Out of its mouth go flames,
> sparks of fire shoot forth!
> <a name="41:20">41:20</a> Smoke streams from its nostrils
> as from a boiling pot over burning rushes.
> <a name="41:21">41:21</a> Its breath sets coals ablaze
> and a flame shoots from its mouth.
> <a name="41:22">41:22</a> Strength lodges in its neck,
> and dismay runs before it.
> <a name="41:23">41:23</a> The folds of its flesh are tightly joined;
> they are firm on it, immovable.
> <a name="41:24">41:24</a> Its heart is hard as rock,
> hard as a lower millstone.
> <a name="41:25">41:25</a> When it rises up, the mighty are terrified,
> at its thrashing about they withdraw.
> <a name="41:26">41:26</a> Whoever strikes it with a sword
> will have no effect,
> nor with the spear, arrow, or dart.
> <a name="41:27">41:27</a> It regards iron as straw
> and bronze as rotten wood.
> <a name="41:28">41:28</a> Arrows do not make it flee;
> slingstones become like chaff to it.
> <a name="41:29">41:29</a> A club is counted as a piece of straw;
> it laughs at the rattling of the lance.
> <a name="41:30">41:30</a> Its underparts are the sharp points of potsherds,
> it leaves its mark in the mud
> like a threshing sledge.
> <a name="41:31">41:31</a> It makes the deep boil like a cauldron
> and stirs up the sea like a pot of ointment,
> <a name="41:32">41:32</a> It leaves a glistening wake behind it;
> one would think the deep to be a hoary head.
> <a name="41:33">41:33</a> The likes of it is not on earth,
> a creature without fear.
> <a name="41:34">41:34</a> It looks on every haughty being;
> it is king over all that are proud.”