---
title: 5
parent: Job
other: x
---


> <a name="5:1">5:1</a> “Call now! Is there anyone who will answer you?
> To which of the holy ones will you turn?
> <a name="5:2">5:2</a> For wrath kills the foolish person,
> and anger slays the silly one.
> <a name="5:3">5:3</a> I myself have seen the fool taking root,
> but suddenly I cursed his place of residence.
> <a name="5:4">5:4</a> His children are far from safety,
> and they are crushed at the place of judgment,
> nor is there anyone to deliver them.
> <a name="5:5">5:5</a> The hungry eat up his harvest,
> and take it even out of the thorns,
> and the thirsty swallow up their fortune.
> <a name="5:6">5:6</a> For evil does not come up from the dust,
> nor does trouble spring up from the ground,
> <a name="5:7">5:7</a> but people are born to trouble,
> as surely as the sparks fly upward.

## Blessings for the One Who Seeks God

> <a name="5:8">5:8</a> “But as for me, I would seek God,
> and to God I would set forth my case.
> <a name="5:9">5:9</a> He does great and unsearchable things,
> marvelous things without number;
> <a name="5:10">5:10</a> he gives rain on the earth,
> and sends water upon the fields;
> <a name="5:11">5:11</a> he sets the lowly on high,
> that those who mourn are raised to safety.
> <a name="5:12">5:12</a> He frustrates the plans of the crafty
> so that their hands do not accomplish
> what they had planned!
> <a name="5:13">5:13</a> He catches the wise in their own craftiness,
> and the counsel of the cunning is brought to a quick end.
> <a name="5:14">5:14</a> They meet with darkness in the daytime,
> and grope about in the noontime as if it were night.
> <a name="5:15">5:15</a> So he saves from the sword that comes from their mouth,
> even the poor from the hand of the powerful.
> <a name="5:16">5:16</a> Thus the poor have hope,
> and iniquity shuts its mouth.
> <a name="5:17">5:17</a> “Therefore, blessed is the man whom God corrects,
> so do not despise the discipline of the Almighty.
> <a name="5:18">5:18</a> For he wounds, but he also bandages;
> he strikes, but his hands also heal.
> <a name="5:19">5:19</a> He will deliver you from six calamities;
> yes, in seven no evil will touch you.
> <a name="5:20">5:20</a> In time of famine he will redeem you from death,
> and in time of war from the power of the sword.
> <a name="5:21">5:21</a> You will be protected from malicious gossip,
> and will not be afraid of the destruction when it comes.
> <a name="5:22">5:22</a> You will laugh at destruction and famine
> and need not be afraid of the beasts of the earth.
> <a name="5:23">5:23</a> For you will have a pact with the stones of the field,
> and the wild animals will be at peace with you.
> <a name="5:24">5:24</a> And you will know that your home
> will be secure,
> and when you inspect your domains,
> you will not be missing anything.
> <a name="5:25">5:25</a> You will also know that your children will be numerous,
> and your offspring like the grass of the earth.
> <a name="5:26">5:26</a> You will come to your grave in a full age,
> As stacks of grain are harvested in their season.
> <a name="5:27">5:27</a> Look, we have investigated this, so it is true.
> Hear it, and apply it for your own good.”