---
title: 7
parent: Job
other: x
---


## The Brevity of Life 

> <a name="7:1">7:1</a> “Does not man have hard service on earth?
> Are not his days also
> like the days of a hired man?
> <a name="7:2">7:2</a> Like a servant longing for the evening shadow,
> and like a hired man looking for his wages.
> <a name="7:3">7:3</a> Thus I have been made to inherit
> months of futility,
> and nights of sorrow
> have been appointed to me.
> <a name="7:4">7:4</a> If I lie down, I say, ‘When will I arise?’,
> and the night stretches on
> and I am full of tossing to and fro
> unto the dawning of the day.
> <a name="7:5">7:5</a> My body is clothed with worms and dirty scabs;
> my skin is broken and festering.
> <a name="7:6">7:6</a> My days are swifter than a weaver’s shuttle
> and they come to an end without hope.
> <a name="7:7">7:7</a> Remember that my life is but a breath,
> that my eyes will never again see happiness.
> <a name="7:8">7:8</a> The eye of him who sees me now will see me no more;
> your eyes will look for me, but I will be gone.
> <a name="7:9">7:9</a> As a cloud is dispersed and then disappears,
> so the one who goes down to the grave
> does not come up again.
> <a name="7:10">7:10</a> He returns no more to his house,
> nor does his place know him any more.

## Job Remonstrates With God

> <a name="7:11">7:11</a> “Therefore, I will not refrain my mouth;
> I will speak in the anguish of my spirit;
> I will complain in the bitterness of my soul.
> <a name="7:12">7:12</a> Am I the sea, or the creature of the deep,
> that you must set a watch over me?
> <a name="7:13">7:13</a> If I say, “My bed will comfort me,
> my couch will ease my complaint,”
> <a name="7:14">7:14</a> then you scare me with dreams
> and terrify me with visions,
> <a name="7:15">7:15</a> so that I would prefer strangling,
> and death more than life.
> <a name="7:16">7:16</a> I loathe it; I would not live forever;
> leave me alone, for my days are a vapor!

## Insignificance of Humans

> <a name="7:17">7:17</a> “What is man that you make so much of him,
> and that you pay attention to him?
> <a name="7:18">7:18</a> And that you visit him every morning,
> and try him every moment?
> <a name="7:19">7:19</a> Will you never look away from me,
> will you not let me alone
> long enough to swallow my spittle?
> <a name="7:20">7:20</a> If I have sinned — what have I done to you,
> O watcher of men?
> Why have you set me as your target?
> Have I become a burden to you?
> <a name="7:21">7:21</a> And why do you not pardon my transgression,
> and take away my iniquity?
> For now I will lie down in the dust,
> and you will seek me diligently,
> but I will be gone.”