---
title: 8
parent: Job
other: x
---


## Bildad’s First Speech to Job 

<a name="8:1">8:1</a> Then Bildad the Shuhite spoke up and said:

> <a name="8:2">8:2</a> “How long will you speak these things,
> seeing that the words of your mouth
> are like a great wind?
> <a name="8:3">8:3</a> Does God pervert justice?
> Or does the Almighty pervert what is right?
> <a name="8:4">8:4</a> If your children sinned against him,
> he gave them over to the penalty of their sin.
> <a name="8:5">8:5</a> But if you will look to God,
> and make your supplication to the Almighty,
> <a name="8:6">8:6</a> if you become pure and upright,
> even now he will rouse himself for you,
> and will restore your righteous abode.
> <a name="8:7">8:7</a> Your beginning will seem so small,
> since your future will flourish.
> <a name="8:8">8:8</a> “For inquire now of the former generation,
> and pay attention to the findings
> of their ancestors;
> <a name="8:9">8:9</a> For we are recent and do not have knowledge,
> since our days on earth are but a shadow.
> <a name="8:10">8:10</a> Will they not instruct you and speak to you,
> and bring forth words
> from their understanding?
> <a name="8:11">8:11</a> Can the papyrus plant grow tall where there is no marsh?
> Can reeds flourish without water?
> <a name="8:12">8:12</a> While they are still in their early flowering
> and not ripe for cutting,
> they can wither away
> faster than any grass!
> <a name="8:13">8:13</a> Such is the destiny of all who forget God,
> and the hope of the godless perishes,
> <a name="8:14">8:14</a> whose trust is in something futile,
> whose security is a spider’s web.
> <a name="8:15">8:15</a> He leans against his house but it does not hold up,
> he takes hold of it but it does not stand.
> <a name="8:16">8:16</a> He is a well-watered plant in the sun,
> its shoots spread over its garden.
> <a name="8:17">8:17</a> It wraps its roots around a heap of stones
> and it looks for a place among stones.
> <a name="8:18">8:18</a> If he is uprooted from his place,
> then that place will disown him, saying,
> ‘I have never seen you!’
> <a name="8:19">8:19</a> Indeed, this is the joy of his way,
> and out of the earth others spring up.
> <a name="8:20">8:20</a> “Surely, God does not reject a blameless man,
> nor does he grasp the hand
> of the evildoers.
> <a name="8:21">8:21</a> He will yet fill your mouth with laughter,
> and your lips with gladness.
> <a name="8:22">8:22</a> Those who hate you will be clothed with shame,
> and the tent of the wicked will be no more.”