---
title: 04
parent: Ecclesiastes
other: x
---

## Evil Oppression on Earth


<a name="4:1">4:1</a> So I again considered all the oppression that continually occurs on earth. This is what I saw: The oppressed were in tears, but no one was comforting them; no one delivers them from the power of their oppressors.

<a name="4:2">4:2</a> So I considered those who are dead and gone more fortunate than those who are still alive.

<a name="4:3">4:3</a> But better than both is the one who has not been born and has not seen the evil things that are done on earth.

## Labor Motivated by Envy


<a name="4:4">4:4</a> Then I considered all the skillful work that is done: Surely it is nothing more than competition between one man and another. This also is profitless — like chasing the wind.

<a name="4:5">4:5</a> The fool folds his hands and does no work, so he has nothing to eat but his own flesh.

<a name="4:6">4:6</a> Better is one handful with some rest than two hands full of toil and chasing the wind.

## Labor Motivated by Greed


<a name="4:7">4:7</a> So I again considered another futile thing on earth:

<a name="4:8">4:8</a> A man who is all alone with no companion, he has no children nor siblings; yet there is no end to all his toil, and he is never satisfied with riches. He laments, “For whom am I toiling and depriving myself of pleasure?” This also is futile and burdensome task!

## Labor is Beneficial When Its Rewards Are Shared


<a name="4:9">4:9</a> Two people are better than one, because they can reap more benefit from their labor.

<a name="4:10">4:10</a> For if they fall, one will lift up his companion, but pity the person who falls down and has no one to help him up.

<a name="4:11">4:11</a> Furthermore, if two lie together, they can keep each other warm, but how can one person keep warm by himself?

<a name="4:12">4:12</a> Although an assailant may overpower one person, two can withstand him. Moreover, a three-strand cord is not quickly broken.

## Labor Motivated by Prestige-Seeking


<a name="4:13">4:13</a> A poor but wise youth is better than an old and foolish king who no longer knows how to receive advice.

<a name="4:14">4:14</a> For he came out of prison to become king, even though he had been born poor in what would become his kingdom.

<a name="4:15">4:15</a> I considered all the living who walk on earth, as well as the second one who would arise in his place.

<a name="4:16">4:16</a> There is no end to all the people nor to the past generations, yet future generations will not rejoice in him. This also is profitless and like chasing the wind.
