---
title: 07
parent: Ecclesiastes
other: x
---

## Life is Brief and Death is Certain!


<a name="7:1">7:1</a> A good reputation is better than precious perfume; likewise, the day of one’s death is better than the day of one’s birth.

<a name="7:2">7:2</a> It is better to go to a funeral than a feast. For death is the destiny of every person, and the living should take this to heart.

<a name="7:3">7:3</a> Sorrow is better than laughter, because sober reflection is good for the heart.

<a name="7:4">7:4</a> The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning, but the heart of fools is in the house of merrymaking.

## Frivolous Living Versus Wisdom


<a name="7:5">7:5</a> It is better for a man to receive a rebuke from wise men than to listen to the song of fools.

<a name="7:6">7:6</a> For like the crackling of quick-burning thorns under a cooking pot, so is the laughter of the fool. This kind of folly also is useless.

## Human Wisdom Overturned by Adversity


<a name="7:7">7:7</a> Surely oppression can turn a wise man into a fool; likewise, a bribe corrupts the heart.

<a name="7:8">7:8</a> The end of a matter is better than its beginning; likewise, patience is better than pride.

<a name="7:9">7:9</a> Do not let yourself become quickly provoked, for anger resides in the lap of fools.

<a name="7:10">7:10</a> Do not say, “Why were the old days better than these days?” for it is not wise to ask that.

## Wisdom Can Lengthen One’s Life


<a name="7:11">7:11</a> Wisdom, like an inheritance, is a good thing; it benefits those who see the light of day.

<a name="7:12">7:12</a> For wisdom provides protection, just as money provides protection. But the advantage of knowledge is this: Wisdom preserves the life of its owner.

## Wisdom Acknowledges God’s Orchestration of Life


<a name="7:13">7:13</a> Consider the work of God: For who can make straight what he has bent?

<a name="7:14">7:14</a> In times of prosperity be joyful, but in times of adversity consider this: God has made one as well as the other, so that no one can discover what the future holds.

## Exceptions to the Law of Retribution


<a name="7:15">7:15</a> During the days of my fleeting life I have seen both of these things: Sometimes a righteous man dies prematurely in spite of his righteousness, and sometimes a wicked man lives long in spite of his evil deeds.

<a name="7:16">7:16</a> So do not be excessively righteous or excessively wise; otherwise you might be disappointed.

<a name="7:17">7:17</a> Do not be excessively wicked and do not be a fool; otherwise you might die before your time.

<a name="7:18">7:18</a> It is best to take hold of one warning without letting go of the other warning; for the one who fears God will follow both warnings.

## Wisdom Needed Because No One is Truly Righteous


<a name="7:19">7:19</a> Wisdom gives a wise man more protection than ten rulers in a city.

<a name="7:20">7:20</a> For there is not one truly righteous man on the earth who continually does good and never sins.

<a name="7:21">7:21</a> Also, do not pay attention to everything that people say; otherwise, you might even hear your servant cursing you.

<a name="7:22">7:22</a> For you know in your own heart that you also have cursed others many times.

## Human Wisdom is Limited


<a name="7:23">7:23</a> I have examined all this by wisdom; I said, “I am determined to comprehend this” — but it was beyond my grasp.

<a name="7:24">7:24</a> Whatever has happened is beyond human understanding; it is far deeper than man can fathom.

## True Righteousness and Wisdom are Virtually Nonexistent


<a name="7:25">7:25</a> I tried to understand, examine, and comprehend the role of wisdom in the scheme of things, and to understand the stupidity of wickedness and the insanity of folly.

<a name="7:26">7:26</a> I discovered this: More bitter than death is the kind of woman who is like a hunter’s snare; her heart is like a hunter’s net and her hands are like prison chains. The man who pleases God escapes her, but the sinner is captured by her.

<a name="7:27">7:27</a> The Teacher says: I discovered this while trying to discover the scheme of things, item by item.

<a name="7:28">7:28</a> What I have continually sought, I have not found; I have found only one upright man among a thousand, but I have not found one upright woman among all of them.

<a name="7:29">7:29</a> This alone have I discovered: God made mankind upright, but they have sought many evil schemes.
