---
title: 10
parent: Ecclesiastes
other: x
---

<a name="10:1">10:1</a> One dead fly makes the perfumer’s ointment give off a rancid stench, so a little folly can outweigh much wisdom.

## Wisdom Can Be Nullified By the Caprice of Rulers


<a name="10:2">10:2</a> A wise man’s good sense protects him, but a fool’s lack of sense leaves him vulnerable.

<a name="10:3">10:3</a> Even when a fool walks along the road he lacks sense, and shows everyone what a fool he is.

<a name="10:4">10:4</a> If the anger of the ruler flares up against you, do not resign from your position, for a calm response can undo great offenses.

<a name="10:5">10:5</a> I have seen another misfortune on the earth: it is an error a ruler makes.

<a name="10:6">10:6</a> Fools are placed in many positions of authority, while wealthy men sit in lowly positions.

<a name="10:7">10:7</a> I have seen servants on horseback, and princes walking on foot like servants.

## Wisdom is Needed to Avert Dangers in Everyday Life


<a name="10:8">10:8</a> One who digs a pit may fall into it, and one who breaks through a wall may be bitten by a snake.

<a name="10:9">10:9</a> One who quarries stones may be injured by them; one who splits logs may be endangered by them.

<a name="10:10">10:10</a> If an iron ax head is blunt and a workman does not sharpen its edge, he must exert a great deal of effort; so wisdom has the advantage of giving success.

<a name="10:11">10:11</a> If the snake should bite before it is charmed, the snake charmer is in trouble.

## Words and Works of Wise Men and Fools


<a name="10:12">10:12</a> The words of a wise man win him favor, but the words of a fool are self-destructive.

<a name="10:13">10:13</a> At the beginning his words are foolish and at the end his talk is wicked madness,

<a name="10:14">10:14</a> yet a fool keeps on babbling. No one knows what will happen; who can tell him what will happen in the future?

<a name="10:15">10:15</a> The toil of a stupid fool wears him out, because he does not even know the way to the city.

## The Problem with Foolish Rulers


<a name="10:16">10:16</a> Woe to you, O land, when your king is childish, and your princes feast in the morning!

<a name="10:17">10:17</a> Blessed are you, O land, when your king is the son of nobility, and your princes feast at the proper time — with self-control and not in drunkenness.

<a name="10:18">10:18</a> Because of laziness the roof caves in, and because of idle hands the house leaks.

<a name="10:19">10:19</a> Feasts are made for laughter, and wine makes life merry, but money is the answer for everything.

<a name="10:20">10:20</a> Do not curse a king even in your thoughts, and do not curse the rich while in your bedroom; for a bird might report what you are thinking, or some winged creature might repeat your words.
