---
title: 01
parent: Galatians
other: x
---

<a name="1:1">1:1</a> From Paul, an apostle (not from men, nor by human agency, but by Jesus Christ and God the Father who raised him from the dead) <a name="1:2">1:2</a> and all the brothers with me, to the churches of Galatia. <a name="1:3">1:3</a> Grace and peace to you from God the Father and our Lord Jesus Christ, <a name="1:4">1:4</a> who gave himself for our sins to rescue us from this present evil age according to the will of our God and Father, <a name="1:5">1:5</a> to whom be glory forever and ever! Amen.

## Occasion of the Letter

<a name="1:6">1:6</a> I am astonished that you are so quickly deserting the one who called you by the grace of Christ and are following a different gospel — <a name="1:7">1:7</a> not that there really is another gospel, but there are some who are disturbing you and wanting to distort the gospel of Christ. <a name="1:8">1:8</a> But even if we (or an angel from heaven) should preach a gospel contrary to the one we preached to you, let him be condemned to hell! <a name="1:9">1:9</a> As we have said before, and now I say again, if any one is preaching to you a gospel contrary to what you received, let him be condemned to hell! <a name="1:10">1:10</a> Am I now trying to gain the approval of people, or of God? Or am I trying to please people? If I were still trying to please people, I would not be a slave of Christ!

## Paul’s Vindication of His Apostleship

<a name="1:11">1:11</a> Now I want you to know, brothers and sisters, that the gospel I preached is not of human origin. <a name="1:12">1:12</a> For I did not receive it or learn it from any human source; instead I received it by a revelation of Jesus Christ.

<a name="1:13">1:13</a> For you have heard of my former way of life in Judaism, how I was savagely persecuting the church of God and trying to destroy it. <a name="1:14">1:14</a> I was advancing in Judaism beyond many of my contemporaries in my nation, and was extremely zealous for the traditions of my ancestors. <a name="1:15">1:15</a> But when the one who set me apart from birth and called me by his grace was pleased <a name="1:16">1:16</a> to reveal his Son in me so that I could preach him among the Gentiles, I did not go to ask advice from any human being, <a name="1:17">1:17</a> nor did I go up to Jerusalem to see those who were apostles before me, but right away I departed to Arabia, and then returned to Damascus.

<a name="1:18">1:18</a> Then after three years I went up to Jerusalem to visit Cephas and get information from him, and I stayed with him fifteen days. <a name="1:19">1:19</a> But I saw none of the other apostles except James the Lord’s brother. <a name="1:20">1:20</a> I assure you that, before God, I am not lying about what I am writing to you! <a name="1:21">1:21</a> Afterward I went to the regions of Syria and Cilicia. <a name="1:22">1:22</a> But I was personally unknown to the churches of Judea that are in Christ. <a name="1:23">1:23</a> They were only hearing, “The one who once persecuted us is now proclaiming the good news of the faith he once tried to destroy.” <a name="1:24">1:24</a> So they glorified God because of me.
