---
title: 01
parent: Nahum
other: x
---

<a name="1:1">1:1</a> The oracle against Nineveh; the book of the vision of Nahum the Elkoshite:

## God Takes Vengeance against His Enemies

<a name="1:2">1:2</a> The Lord is a zealous and avenging God;
the Lord is avenging and very angry.
The Lord takes vengeance against his foes;
he sustains his rage against his enemies.
<a name="1:3">1:3</a> The Lord is slow to anger but great in power;
the Lord will certainly not allow the wicked to go unpunished.

## The Divine Warrior Destroys His Enemies but Protects His People

He marches out in the whirlwind and the raging storm;
dark storm clouds billow like dust under his feet.
<a name="1:4">1:4</a> He shouts a battle cry against the sea and makes it dry up;
he makes all the rivers run dry.
Bashan and Carmel wither;
the blossom of Lebanon withers.
<a name="1:5">1:5</a> The mountains tremble before him,
the hills convulse;
the earth is laid waste before him,
the world and all its inhabitants are laid waste.
<a name="1:6">1:6</a> No one can withstand his indignation!
No one can resist his fierce anger!
His wrath is poured out like volcanic fire,
boulders are broken up as he approaches.
<a name="1:7">1:7</a> The Lord is good — 
indeed, he is a fortress in time of distress,
and he protects those who seek refuge in him.
<a name="1:8">1:8</a> But with an overwhelming flood
he will make a complete end of Nineveh;
he will drive his enemies into darkness.

## Denunciation and Destruction of Nineveh

<a name="1:9">1:9</a> Whatever you plot against the Lord, he will completely destroy!
Distress will not arise a second time.
<a name="1:10">1:10</a> Surely they will be totally consumed
like entangled thorn bushes,
like the drink of drunkards,
like very dry stubble.
<a name="1:11">1:11</a> From you, O Nineveh, one has marched forth who plots evil against the Lord,
a wicked military strategist.

## Oracle of Deliverance to Judah

<a name="1:12">1:12</a> This is what the Lord says:

“Even though they are powerful — 
and what’s more, even though their army is numerous — 
nevertheless, they will be destroyed and trickle away!
Although I afflicted you,
I will afflict you no more.
<a name="1:13">1:13</a> And now, I will break Assyria’s yoke bar from your neck;
I will tear apart the shackles that are on you.”

## Oracle of Judgment against the King of Nineveh

<a name="1:14">1:14</a> The Lord has issued a decree against you:
“Your dynasty will come to an end.
I will destroy the idols and images in the temples of your gods.
I will desecrate your grave — because you are accursed!”

## Proclamation of the Deliverance of Judah

<a name="1:15">1:15</a> Look! A herald is running on the mountains!
A messenger is proclaiming deliverance:
“Celebrate your sacred festivals, O Judah!
Fulfill your sacred vows to praise God!
For never again will the wicked Assyrians invade you,
they have been completely destroyed.”
