---
title: 02
parent: Zechariah
other: x
---

## Vision Three: The Surveyor

<a name="2:1">2:1</a> I looked again, and there was a man with a measuring line in his hand. <a name="2:2">2:2</a> I asked, “Where are you going?” He replied, “To measure Jerusalem in order to determine its width and its length.” <a name="2:3">2:3</a> At this point the angelic messenger who spoke to me went out, and another messenger came to meet him <a name="2:4">2:4</a> and said to him, “Hurry, speak to this young man as follows: ‘Jerusalem will no longer be enclosed by walls because of the multitude of people and animals there. <a name="2:5">2:5</a> But I (the Lord says) will be a wall of fire surrounding Jerusalem and the source of glory in her midst.’”

<a name="2:6">2:6</a> “You there! Flee from the northland!” says the Lord, “for like the four winds of heaven I have scattered you,” says the Lord. <a name="2:7">2:7</a> “Escape, Zion, you who live among the Babylonians!” <a name="2:8">2:8</a> For the sovereign Lord says to me that for his own glory he has sent me to the nations that plundered you — for anyone who touches you touches the pupil of his eye. <a name="2:9">2:9</a> “I am about to punish them in such a way,” he says, “that they will be looted by their own slaves.” Then you will know that the sovereign Lord has sent me.

<a name="2:10">2:10</a> “Sing out and be happy, Zion my daughter! For look, I have come; I will settle in your midst,” says the Lord. <a name="2:11">2:11</a> “Many nations will join themselves to the Lord on the day of salvation, and they will also be my people. Indeed, I will settle in the midst of you all.” Then you will know that the sovereign Lord has sent me to you. <a name="2:12">2:12</a> The Lord will take possession of Judah as his portion in the holy land and he will choose Jerusalem once again. <a name="2:13">2:13</a> Be silent in the Lord’s presence, all people everywhere, for he is being moved to action in his holy dwelling place.