---
title: 13
parent: Zechariah
other: x
---

## The Refinement of Judah

<a name="13:1">13:1</a> “In that day there will be a fountain opened up for the dynasty of David and the people of Jerusalem for sin and impurity. <a name="13:2">13:2</a> And also on that day,” says the sovereign Lord, “I will remove the names of the idols from the land and they will never again be remembered. Moreover, I will remove the prophets and the unclean spirit from the land. <a name="13:3">13:3</a> Then, if anyone prophesies in spite of this, his father and mother who bore him will say to him, ‘You cannot live, for you lie in the name of the Lord.’ Then his father and mother who bore him will run him through with a sword when he prophesies.

<a name="13:4">13:4</a> “Therefore, on that day each prophet will be ashamed of his vision when he prophesies and will no longer wear the hairy garment of a prophet to deceive the people. <a name="13:5">13:5</a> Instead he will say, ‘I am no prophet — indeed, I am a farmer, for a man has made me his indentured servant since my youth.’ <a name="13:6">13:6</a> Then someone will ask him, ‘What are these wounds on your chest?’ and he will answer, ‘Some that I received in the house of my friends.’

> <a name="13:7">13:7</a> “Awake, sword, against my shepherd,
> against the man who is my associate,”
> says the sovereign Lord.
> Strike the shepherd that the flock may be scattered;
> I will turn my hand against the insignificant ones.
> <a name="13:8">13:8</a> It will happen in all the land, says the Lord,
> that two-thirds of the people in it will be cut off and die,
> but one-third will be left in it.
> <a name="13:9">13:9</a> Then I will bring the remaining third into the fire;
> I will refine them like silver is refined
> and will test them like gold is tested.
> They will call on my name and I will answer;
> I will say, ‘These are my people,’
> and they will say, ‘The Lord is my God.’”