---
title: 03
parent: James
other: x
---

## The Power of the Tongue

<a name="3:1">3:1</a> Not many of you should become teachers, my brothers and sisters, because you know that we will be judged more strictly. <a name="3:2">3:2</a> For we all stumble in many ways. If someone does not stumble in what he says, he is a perfect individual, able to control the entire body as well. <a name="3:3">3:3</a> And if we put bits into the mouths of horses to get them to obey us, then we guide their entire bodies. <a name="3:4">3:4</a> Look at ships too: Though they are so large and driven by harsh winds, they are steered by a tiny rudder wherever the pilot’s inclination directs. <a name="3:5">3:5</a> So too the tongue is a small part of the body, yet it has great pretensions. Think how small a flame sets a huge forest ablaze. <a name="3:6">3:6</a> And the tongue is a fire! The tongue represents the world of wrongdoing among the parts of our bodies. It pollutes the entire body and sets fire to the course of human existence — and is set on fire by hell.

<a name="3:7">3:7</a> For every kind of animal, bird, reptile, and sea creature is subdued and has been subdued by humankind. <a name="3:8">3:8</a> But no human being can subdue the tongue; it is a restless evil, full of deadly poison. <a name="3:9">3:9</a> With it we bless the Lord and Father, and with it we curse people made in God’s image. <a name="3:10">3:10</a> From the same mouth come blessing and cursing. These things should not be so, my brothers and sisters. <a name="3:11">3:11</a> A spring does not pour out fresh water and bitter water from the same opening, does it? <a name="3:12">3:12</a> Can a fig tree produce olives, my brothers and sisters, or a vine produce figs? Neither can a salt water spring produce fresh water.

## True Wisdom

<a name="3:13">3:13</a> Who is wise and understanding among you? By his good conduct he should show his works done in the gentleness that wisdom brings. <a name="3:14">3:14</a> But if you have bitter jealousy and selfishness in your hearts, do not boast and tell lies against the truth. <a name="3:15">3:15</a> Such wisdom does not come from above but is earthly, natural, demonic. <a name="3:16">3:16</a> For where there is jealousy and selfishness, there is disorder and every evil practice. <a name="3:17">3:17</a> But the wisdom from above is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, accommodating, full of mercy and good fruit, impartial, and not hypocritical. <a name="3:18">3:18</a> And the fruit that consists of righteousness is planted in peace among those who make peace.
