---
title: 01
parent: Hebrews
other: x
---

<a name="1:1">1:1</a> After God spoke long ago in various portions and in various ways to our ancestors through the prophets, <a name="1:2">1:2</a> in these last days he has spoken to us in a son, whom he appointed heir of all things, and through whom he created the world. <a name="1:3">1:3</a> The Son is the radiance of his glory and the representation of his essence, and he sustains all things by his powerful word, and so when he had accomplished cleansing for sins, he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on high. <a name="1:4">1:4</a> Thus he became so far better than the angels as he has inherited a name superior to theirs.

## The Son Is Superior to Angels

<a name="1:5">1:5</a> For to which of the angels did God ever say, “You are my son! Today I have fathered you”? And in another place he says, “I will be his father and he will be my son.” <a name="1:6">1:6</a> But when he again brings his firstborn into the world, he says, “Let all the angels of God worship him!” <a name="1:7">1:7</a> And he says of the angels, “He makes his angels spirits and his ministers a flame of fire,” <a name="1:8">1:8</a> but of the Son he says,

> “Your throne, O God, is forever and ever,
> and a righteous scepter is the scepter of your kingdom.
> <a name="1:9">1:9</a> You have loved righteousness and hated lawlessness.
> So God, your God, has anointed you over your companions with the oil of rejoicing.”

<a name="1:10">1:10</a> And,

> “You founded the earth in the beginning, Lord,
> and the heavens are the works of your hands.
> <a name="1:11">1:11</a> They will perish, but you continue.
> And they will all grow old like a garment,
> <a name="1:12">1:12</a> and like a robe you will fold them up
> and like a garment they will be changed,
> but you are the same and your years will never run out.”

<a name="1:13">1:13</a> But to which of the angels has he ever said, “Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet”? <a name="1:14">1:14</a> Are they not all ministering spirits, sent out to serve those who will inherit salvation?
