---
title: 03
parent: Hebrews
other: x
---

## Jesus and Moses

<a name="3:1">3:1</a> Therefore, holy brothers and sisters, partners in a heavenly calling, take note of Jesus, the apostle and high priest whom we confess, <a name="3:2">3:2</a> who is faithful to the one who appointed him, as Moses was also in God’s house. <a name="3:3">3:3</a> For he has come to deserve greater glory than Moses, just as the builder of a house deserves greater honor than the house itself! <a name="3:4">3:4</a> For every house is built by someone, but the builder of all things is God. <a name="3:5">3:5</a> Now Moses was faithful in all God’s house as a servant, to testify to the things that would be spoken. <a name="3:6">3:6</a> But Christ is faithful as a son over God’s house. We are of his house, if in fact we hold firmly to our confidence and the hope we take pride in.

## Exposition of Psalm 95: Hearing God’s Word in Faith

<a name="3:7">3:7</a> Therefore, as the Holy Spirit says,

> “Oh, that today you would listen as he speaks!
> <a name="3:8">3:8</a> “Do not harden your hearts as in the rebellion, in the day of testing in the wilderness.
> <a name="3:9">3:9</a> “There your fathers tested me and tried me, and they saw my works for forty years.
> <a name="3:10">3:10</a> “Therefore, I became provoked at that generation and said, ‘Their hearts are always wandering and they have not known my ways.’
> <a name="3:11">3:11</a> “As I swore in my anger, ‘They will never enter my rest!’”

<a name="3:12">3:12</a> See to it, brothers and sisters, that none of you has an evil, unbelieving heart that forsakes the living God. <a name="3:13">3:13</a> But exhort one another each day, as long as it is called “Today,” that none of you may become hardened by sin’s deception. <a name="3:14">3:14</a> For we have become partners with Christ, if in fact we hold our initial confidence firm until the end. <a name="3:15">3:15</a> As it says, “Oh, that today you would listen as he speaks! Do not harden your hearts as in the rebellion.” <a name="3:16">3:16</a> For which ones heard and rebelled? Was it not all who came out of Egypt under Moses’ leadership? <a name="3:17">3:17</a> And against whom was God provoked for forty years? Was it not those who sinned, whose dead bodies fell in the wilderness? <a name="3:18">3:18</a> And to whom did he swear they would never enter into his rest, except those who were disobedient? <a name="3:19">3:19</a> So we see that they could not enter because of unbelief.
