---
title: 03
parent: Ephesians
other: x
---
## Paul’s Relationship to the Divine Mystery

<a name="3:1">3:1</a> For this reason I, Paul, the prisoner of Christ Jesus for the sake of you Gentiles — <a name="3:2">3:2</a> if indeed you have heard of the stewardship of God’s grace that was given to me for you, <a name="3:3">3:3</a> that by revelation the divine secret was made known to me, as I wrote before briefly. <a name="3:4">3:4</a> When reading this, you will be able to understand my insight into this secret of Christ. <a name="3:5">3:5</a> Now this secret was not disclosed to people in former generations as it has now been revealed to his holy apostles and prophets by the Spirit, <a name="3:6">3:6</a> namely, that through the gospel the Gentiles are fellow heirs, fellow members of the body, and fellow partakers of the promise in Christ Jesus. <a name="3:7">3:7</a> I became a servant of this gospel according to the gift of God’s grace that was given to me by the exercise of his power. <a name="3:8">3:8</a> To me — less than the least of all the saints — this grace was given, to proclaim to the Gentiles the unfathomable riches of Christ <a name="3:9">3:9</a> and to enlighten everyone about God’s secret plan — a secret that has been hidden for ages in God who has created all things. <a name="3:10">3:10</a> The purpose of this enlightenment is that through the church the multifaceted wisdom of God should now be disclosed to the rulers and the authorities in the heavenly realms. <a name="3:11">3:11</a> This was according to the eternal purpose that he accomplished in Christ Jesus our Lord, <a name="3:12">3:12</a> in whom we have boldness and confident access to God because of Christ’s faithfulness. <a name="3:13">3:13</a> For this reason I ask you not to lose heart because of what I am suffering for you, which is your glory.

## Prayer for Strengthened Love

<a name="3:14">3:14</a> For this reason I kneel before the Father, <a name="3:15">3:15</a> from whom every family in heaven and on the earth is named. <a name="3:16">3:16</a> I pray that according to the wealth of his glory he may grant you to be strengthened with power through his Spirit in the inner person, <a name="3:17">3:17</a> that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith, so that, because you have been rooted and grounded in love, <a name="3:18">3:18</a> you may be able to comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth and length and height and depth, <a name="3:19">3:19</a> and thus to know the love of Christ that surpasses knowledge, so that you may be filled up to all the fullness of God.

<a name="3:20">3:20</a> Now to him who by the power that is working within us is able to do far beyond all that we ask or think, <a name="3:21">3:21</a> to him be the glory in the church and in Christ Jesus to all generations, forever and ever. Amen.
