---
title: 05
parent: Genesis
other: x
---

## From Adam to Noah

<a name="5:1">5:1</a> This is the record of the family line of Adam.

When God created mankind, he made them in the likeness of God. <a name="5:2">5:2</a> He created them male and female; when they were created, he blessed them and named them “mankind.”

<a name="5:3">5:3</a> When Adam had lived one hundred and thirty years he fathered a son in his own likeness, according to his image, and he named him Seth. <a name="5:4">5:4</a> The lifetime of Adam, after he became the father of Seth, was eight hundred years; during this time he had other sons and daughters. <a name="5:5">5:5</a> The entire lifetime of Adam was nine hundred and thirty years, and then he died.

<a name="5:6">5:6</a> When Seth had lived one hundred and five years, he became the father of Enosh. <a name="5:7">5:7</a> Seth lived eight hundred and seven years after he became the father of Enosh, and he had other sons and daughters. <a name="5:8">5:8</a> The entire lifetime of Seth was nine hundred and twelve years, and then he died.

<a name="5:9">5:9</a> When Enosh had lived ninety years, he became the father of Kenan. <a name="5:10">5:10</a> Enosh lived eight hundred and fifteen years after he became the father of Kenan, and he had other sons and daughters. <a name="5:11">5:11</a> The entire lifetime of Enosh was nine hundred and five years, and then he died.

<a name="5:12">5:12</a> When Kenan had lived seventy years, he became the father of Mahalalel. <a name="5:13">5:13</a> Kenan lived eight hundred and forty years after he became the father of Mahalalel, and he had other sons and daughters. <a name="5:14">5:14</a> The entire lifetime of Kenan was nine hundred and ten years, and then he died.

<a name="5:15">5:15</a> When Mahalalel had lived sixty-five years, he became the father of Jared. <a name="5:16">5:16</a> Mahalalel lived eight hundred and thirty years after he became the father of Jared, and he had other sons and daughters. <a name="5:17">5:17</a> The entire lifetime of Mahalalel was eight hundred and ninety-five years, and then he died.

<a name="5:18">5:18</a> When Jared had lived one hundred and sixty-two years, he became the father of Enoch. <a name="5:19">5:19</a> Jared lived eight hundred years after he became the father of Enoch, and he had other sons and daughters. <a name="5:20">5:20</a> The entire lifetime of Jared was nine hundred and sixty-two years, and then he died.

<a name="5:21">5:21</a> When Enoch had lived sixty-five years, he became the father of Methuselah. <a name="5:22">5:22</a> After he became the father of Methuselah, Enoch walked with God for three hundred years, and he had other sons and daughters. <a name="5:23">5:23</a> The entire lifetime of Enoch was three hundred and sixty-five years. <a name="5:24">5:24</a> Enoch walked with God, and then he disappeared because God took him away.

<a name="5:25">5:25</a> When Methuselah had lived one hundred and eighty-seven years, he became the father of Lamech. <a name="5:26">5:26</a> Methuselah lived seven hundred and eighty-two years after he became the father of Lamech, and he had other sons and daughters. <a name="5:27">5:27</a> The entire lifetime of Methuselah was nine hundred and sixty-nine years, and then he died.

<a name="5:28">5:28</a> When Lamech had lived one hundred and eighty-two years, he had a son. <a name="5:29">5:29</a> He named him Noah, saying, “This one will bring us comfort from our labor and from the painful toil of our hands because of the ground that the Lord has cursed.” <a name="5:30">5:30</a> Lamech lived five hundred and ninety-five years after he became the father of Noah, and he had other sons and daughters. <a name="5:31">5:31</a> The entire lifetime of Lamech was seven hundred and seventy-seven years, and then he died.

<a name="5:32">5:32</a> After Noah was five hundred years old, he became the father of Shem, Ham, and Japheth.
