---
title: 11
parent: Genesis
other: x
---

## The Dispersion of the Nations at Babel

<a name="11:1">11:1</a> The whole earth had a common language and a common vocabulary. <a name="11:2">11:2</a> When the people moved eastward, they found a plain in Shinar and settled there. <a name="11:3">11:3</a> Then they said to one another, “Come, let’s make bricks and bake them thoroughly.” (They had brick instead of stone and tar instead of mortar.) <a name="11:4">11:4</a> Then they said, “Come, let’s build ourselves a city and a tower with its top in the heavens so that we may make a name for ourselves. Otherwise we will be scattered across the face of the entire earth.”

<a name="11:5">11:5</a> But the Lord came down to see the city and the tower that the people had started building. <a name="11:6">11:6</a> And the Lord said, “If as one people all sharing a common language they have begun to do this, then nothing they plan to do will be beyond them. <a name="11:7">11:7</a> Come, let’s go down and confuse their language so they won’t be able to understand each other.”

<a name="11:8">11:8</a> So the Lord scattered them from there across the face of the entire earth, and they stopped building the city. <a name="11:9">11:9</a> That is why its name was called Babel — because there the Lord confused the language of the entire world, and from there the Lord scattered them across the face of the entire earth.

## The Genealogy of Shem

<a name="11:10">11:10</a> This is the account of Shem.

Shem was one hundred years old when he became the father of Arphaxad, two years after the flood. <a name="11:11">11:11</a> And after becoming the father of Arphaxad, Shem lived five hundred years and had other sons and daughters.

<a name="11:12">11:12</a> When Arphaxad had lived thirty-five years, he became the father of Shelah. <a name="11:13">11:13</a> And after he became the father of Shelah, Arphaxad lived four hundred and three years and had other sons and daughters.

<a name="11:14">11:14</a> When Shelah had lived thirty years, he became the father of Eber. <a name="11:15">11:15</a> And after he became the father of Eber, Shelah lived four hundred and three years and had other sons and daughters.

<a name="11:16">11:16</a> When Eber had lived thirty-four years, he became the father of Peleg. <a name="11:17">11:17</a> And after he became the father of Peleg, Eber lived four hundred and thirty years and had other sons and daughters.

<a name="11:18">11:18</a> When Peleg had lived thirty years, he became the father of Reu. <a name="11:19">11:19</a> And after he became the father of Reu, Peleg lived two hundred and nine years and had other sons and daughters.

<a name="11:20">11:20</a> When Reu had lived thirty-two years, he became the father of Serug. <a name="11:21">11:21</a> And after he became the father of Serug, Reu lived two hundred and seven years and had other sons and daughters.

<a name="11:22">11:22</a> When Serug had lived thirty years, he became the father of Nahor. <a name="11:23">11:23</a> And after he became the father of Nahor, Serug lived two hundred years and had other sons and daughters.

<a name="11:24">11:24</a> When Nahor had lived twenty-nine years, he became the father of Terah. <a name="11:25">11:25</a> And after he became the father of Terah, Nahor lived one hundred and nineteen years and had other sons and daughters.

<a name="11:26">11:26</a> When Terah had lived seventy years, he became the father of Abram, Nahor, and Haran.

## The Record of Terah

<a name="11:27">11:27</a> This is the account of Terah.

Terah became the father of Abram, Nahor, and Haran. And Haran became the father of Lot. <a name="11:28">11:28</a> Haran died in the land of his birth, in Ur of the Chaldeans, while his father Terah was still alive. <a name="11:29">11:29</a> And Abram and Nahor took wives for themselves. The name of Abram’s wife was Sarai, and the name of Nahor’s wife was Milcah; she was the daughter of Haran, the father of both Milcah and Iscah. <a name="11:30">11:30</a> But Sarai was barren; she had no children.

<a name="11:31">11:31</a> Terah took his son Abram, his grandson Lot (the son of Haran), and his daughter-in-law Sarai, his son Abram’s wife, and with them he set out from Ur of the Chaldeans to go to Canaan. When they came to Haran, they settled there. <a name="11:32">11:32</a> The lifetime of Terah was two hundred and five years, and he died in Haran.
