---
title: 15
parent: Genesis
other: x
---

## The Cutting of the Covenant

<a name="15:1">15:1</a> After these things the word of the Lord came to Abram in a vision: “Fear not, Abram! I am your shield and the one who will reward you in great abundance.”

<a name="15:2">15:2</a> But Abram said, “O Sovereign Lord, what will you give me since I continue to be childless, and my heir is Eliezer of Damascus?” <a name="15:3">15:3</a> Abram added, “Since you have not given me a descendant, then look, one born in my house will be my heir!”

<a name="15:4">15:4</a> But look, the word of the Lord came to him: “This man will not be your heir, but instead a son who comes from your own body will be your heir.” <a name="15:5">15:5</a> He took him outside and said, “Gaze into the sky and count the stars — if you are able to count them!” Then he said to him, “So will your descendants be.”

<a name="15:6">15:6</a> Abram believed the Lord, and the Lord considered his response of faith proof of genuine loyalty.

<a name="15:7">15:7</a> The Lord said to him, “I am the Lord who brought you out from Ur of the Chaldeans to give you this land to possess.” <a name="15:8">15:8</a> But Abram said, “O Sovereign Lord, by what can I know that I am to possess it?”

<a name="15:9">15:9</a> The Lord said to him, “Take for me a heifer, a goat, and a ram, each three years old, along with a dove and a young pigeon.” <a name="15:10">15:10</a> So Abram took all these for him and then cut them in two and placed each half opposite the other, but he did not cut the birds in half. <a name="15:11">15:11</a> When birds of prey came down on the carcasses, Abram drove them away.

<a name="15:12">15:12</a> When the sun went down, Abram fell sound asleep. Then great terror overwhelmed him. <a name="15:13">15:13</a> Then the Lord said to Abram, “Know for certain that your descendants will be strangers in a foreign country. They will be enslaved and oppressed for four hundred years. <a name="15:14">15:14</a> But I will execute judgment on the nation that they will serve. Afterward they will come out with many possessions. <a name="15:15">15:15</a> But as for you, you will go to your ancestors in peace and be buried at a good old age. <a name="15:16">15:16</a> In the fourth generation your descendants will return here, for the sin of the Amorites has not yet reached its limit.”

<a name="15:17">15:17</a> When the sun had gone down and it was dark, a smoking firepot with a flaming torch passed between the animal parts. <a name="15:18">15:18</a> That day the Lord made a covenant with Abram: “To your descendants I give this land, from the river of Egypt to the great river, the Euphrates River —  <a name="15:19">15:19</a> the land of the Kenites, Kenizzites, Kadmonites, <a name="15:20">15:20</a> Hittites, Perizzites, Rephaites, <a name="15:21">15:21</a> Amorites, Canaanites, Girgashites, and Jebusites.”
