---
title: 16
parent: Genesis
other: x
---

## The Birth of Ishmael

<a name="16:1">16:1</a> Now Sarai, Abram’s wife, had not given birth to any children, but she had an Egyptian servant named Hagar. <a name="16:2">16:2</a> So Sarai said to Abram, “Since the Lord has prevented me from having children, have sexual relations with my servant. Perhaps I can have a family by her.” Abram did what Sarai told him.

<a name="16:3">16:3</a> So after Abram had lived in Canaan for ten years, Sarai, Abram’s wife, gave Hagar, her Egyptian servant, to her husband to be his wife. <a name="16:4">16:4</a> He had sexual relations with Hagar, and she became pregnant. Once Hagar realized she was pregnant, she despised Sarai. <a name="16:5">16:5</a> Then Sarai said to Abram, “You have brought this wrong on me! I allowed my servant to have sexual relations with you, but when she realized that she was pregnant, she despised me. May the Lord judge between you and me!”

<a name="16:6">16:6</a> Abram said to Sarai, “Since your servant is under your authority, do to her whatever you think best.” Then Sarai treated Hagar harshly, so she ran away from Sarai.

<a name="16:7">16:7</a> The Lord’s angel found Hagar near a spring of water in the desert — the spring that is along the road to Shur. <a name="16:8">16:8</a> He said, “Hagar, servant of Sarai, where have you come from, and where are you going?” She replied, “I’m running away from my mistress, Sarai.”

<a name="16:9">16:9</a> Then the Lord’s angel said to her, “Return to your mistress and submit to her authority. <a name="16:10">16:10</a> I will greatly multiply your descendants,” the Lord’s angel added, “so that they will be too numerous to count.” <a name="16:11">16:11</a> Then the Lord’s angel said to her,

> “You are now pregnant
> and are about to give birth to a son.
> You are to name him Ishmael,
> for the Lord has heard your painful groans.
> <a name="16:12">16:12</a> He will be a wild donkey of a man.
> He will be hostile to everyone,
> and everyone will be hostile to him.
> He will live away from his brothers.”

<a name="16:13">16:13</a> So Hagar named the Lord who spoke to her, “You are the God who sees me,” for she said, “Here I have seen one who sees me!” <a name="16:14">16:14</a> That is why the well was called Beer Lahai Roi. (It is located between Kadesh and Bered.)

<a name="16:15">16:15</a> So Hagar gave birth to Abram’s son, whom Abram named Ishmael. <a name="16:16">16:16</a> (Now Abram was eighty-six years old when Hagar gave birth to Ishmael.)
