---
title: 33
parent: Genesis
other: x
---

## Jacob Meets Esau

<a name="33:1">33:1</a> Jacob looked up and saw that Esau was coming along with four hundred men. So he divided the children among Leah, Rachel, and the two female servants. <a name="33:2">33:2</a> He put the servants and their children in front, with Leah and her children behind them, and Rachel and Joseph behind them. <a name="33:3">33:3</a> But Jacob himself went on ahead of them, and he bowed toward the ground seven times as he approached his brother. <a name="33:4">33:4</a> But Esau ran to meet him, embraced him, hugged his neck, and kissed him. Then they both wept. <a name="33:5">33:5</a> When Esau looked up and saw the women and the children, he asked, “Who are these people with you?” Jacob replied, “The children whom God has graciously given your servant.” <a name="33:6">33:6</a> The female servants came forward with their children and bowed down. <a name="33:7">33:7</a> Then Leah came forward with her children and they bowed down. Finally Joseph and Rachel came forward and bowed down.

<a name="33:8">33:8</a> Esau then asked, “What did you intend by sending all these herds to meet me?” Jacob replied, “To find favor in your sight, my lord.” <a name="33:9">33:9</a> But Esau said, “I have plenty, my brother. Keep what belongs to you.” <a name="33:10">33:10</a> “No, please take them,” Jacob said. “If I have found favor in your sight, accept my gift from my hand. Now that I have seen your face and you have accepted me, it is as if I have seen the face of God. <a name="33:11">33:11</a> Please take my present that was brought to you, for God has been generous to me and I have all I need.” When Jacob urged him, he took it.

<a name="33:12">33:12</a> Then Esau said, “Let’s be on our way! I will go in front of you.” <a name="33:13">33:13</a> But Jacob said to him, “My lord knows that the children are young, and that I have to look after the sheep and cattle that are nursing their young. If they are driven too hard for even a single day, all the animals will die. <a name="33:14">33:14</a> Let my lord go on ahead of his servant. I will travel more slowly, at the pace of the herds and the children, until I come to my lord at Seir.”

<a name="33:15">33:15</a> So Esau said, “Let me leave some of my men with you.” “Why do that?” Jacob replied. “My lord has already been kind enough to me.”

<a name="33:16">33:16</a> So that same day Esau made his way back to Seir. <a name="33:17">33:17</a> But Jacob traveled to Succoth where he built himself a house and made shelters for his livestock. That is why the place was called Succoth.

<a name="33:18">33:18</a> After he left Paddan Aram, Jacob came safely to the city of Shechem in the land of Canaan, and he camped near the city. <a name="33:19">33:19</a> Then he purchased the portion of the field where he had pitched his tent; he bought it from the sons of Hamor, Shechem’s father, for a hundred pieces of money. <a name="33:20">33:20</a> There he set up an altar and called it “The God of Israel is God.”
