---
title: 49
parent: Genesis
other: x
---

## The Blessing of Jacob

<a name="49:1">49:1</a> Jacob called for his sons and said, “Gather together so I can tell you what will happen to you in the future.

<a name="49:2">49:2</a> “Assemble and listen, you sons of Jacob;

> listen to Israel, your father.

> <a name="49:3">49:3</a> Reuben, you are my firstborn,
> my might and the beginning of my strength,
> outstanding in dignity, outstanding in power.
> <a name="49:4">49:4</a> You are destructive like water and will not excel,
> for you got on your father’s bed,
> then you defiled it — he got on my couch!

> <a name="49:5">49:5</a> Simeon and Levi are brothers,
> weapons of violence are their knives.
> <a name="49:6">49:6</a> O my soul, do not come into their council,
> do not be united to their assembly, my heart,
> for in their anger they have killed men,
> and for pleasure they have hamstrung oxen.
> <a name="49:7">49:7</a> Cursed be their anger, for it was fierce,
> and their fury, for it was cruel.
> I will divide them in Jacob,
> and scatter them in Israel.

> <a name="49:8">49:8</a> Judah, your brothers will praise you.
> Your hand will be on the neck of your enemies,
> your father’s sons will bow down before you.
> <a name="49:9">49:9</a> You are a lion’s cub, Judah,
> from the prey, my son, you have gone up.
> He crouches and lies down like a lion;
> like a lioness — who will rouse him?
> <a name="49:10">49:10</a> The scepter will not depart from Judah,
> nor the ruler’s staff from between his feet,
> until he comes to whom it belongs;
> the nations will obey him.
> <a name="49:11">49:11</a> Binding his foal to the vine,
> and his colt to the choicest vine,
> he will wash his garments in wine,
> his robes in the blood of grapes.
> <a name="49:12">49:12</a> His eyes will be dark from wine,
> and his teeth white from milk.

> <a name="49:13">49:13</a> Zebulun will live by the haven of the sea
> and become a haven for ships;
> his border will extend to Sidon.

> <a name="49:14">49:14</a> Issachar is a strong-boned donkey
> lying down between two saddlebags.
> <a name="49:15">49:15</a> When he sees a good resting place,
> and the pleasant land,
> he will bend his shoulder to the burden
> and become a slave laborer.

> <a name="49:16">49:16</a> Dan will judge his people
> as one of the tribes of Israel.
> <a name="49:17">49:17</a> May Dan be a snake beside the road,
> a viper by the path,
> that bites the heels of the horse
> so that its rider falls backward.
> <a name="49:18">49:18</a> I wait for your deliverance, O Lord.

> <a name="49:19">49:19</a> Gad will be raided by marauding bands,
> but he will attack them at their heels.

> <a name="49:20">49:20</a> Asher’s food will be rich,
> and he will provide delicacies to royalty.

> <a name="49:21">49:21</a> Naphtali is a free running doe,
> he speaks delightful words.

> <a name="49:22">49:22</a> Joseph is a fruitful bough,
> a fruitful bough near a spring
> whose branches climb over the wall.
> <a name="49:23">49:23</a> The archers will attack him,
> they will shoot at him and oppose him.
> <a name="49:24">49:24</a> But his bow will remain steady,
> and his hands will be skillful;
> because of the hands of the Mighty One of Jacob,
> because of the Shepherd, the Rock of Israel,
> <a name="49:25">49:25</a> because of the God of your father,
> who will help you,
> because of the Sovereign God,
> who will bless you
> with blessings from the sky above,
> blessings from the deep that lies below,
> and blessings of the breasts and womb.
> <a name="49:26">49:26</a> The blessings of your father are greater
> than the blessings of the eternal mountains
> or the desirable things of the age-old hills.
> They will be on the head of Joseph
> and on the brow of the prince of his brothers.

> <a name="49:27">49:27</a> Benjamin is a ravenous wolf;
> in the morning devouring the prey,
> and in the evening dividing the plunder.”

<a name="49:28">49:28</a> These are the twelve tribes of Israel. This is what their father said to them when he blessed them. He gave each of them an appropriate blessing.

<a name="49:29">49:29</a> Then he instructed them, “I am about to go to my people. Bury me with my fathers in the cave in the field of Ephron the Hittite. <a name="49:30">49:30</a> It is the cave in the field of Machpelah, near Mamre in the land of Canaan, which Abraham bought for a burial plot from Ephron the Hittite. <a name="49:31">49:31</a> There they buried Abraham and his wife Sarah; there they buried Isaac and his wife Rebekah; and there I buried Leah. <a name="49:32">49:32</a> The field and the cave in it were acquired from the sons of Heth.”

<a name="49:33">49:33</a> When Jacob finished giving these instructions to his sons, he pulled his feet up onto the bed, breathed his last breath, and went to his people.
