---
title: 04
parent: Hosea
other: x
---

## The Lord’s Covenant Lawsuit against the Nation Israel

<a name="4:1">4:1</a> Hear the word of the Lord, you Israelites!
For the Lord has a covenant lawsuit against the people of Israel.
For there is neither faithfulness nor loyalty in the land,
nor do they acknowledge God.

<a name="4:2">4:2</a> There is only cursing, lying, murder, stealing, and adultery.
They resort to violence and bloodshed.

<a name="4:3">4:3</a> Therefore the land will mourn,
and all its inhabitants will perish.
The wild animals, the birds of the sky,
and even the fish in the sea will perish.

## The Lord’s Dispute against the Sinful Priesthood

<a name="4:4">4:4</a> Do not let anyone accuse or contend against anyone else:
for my case is against you priests!

<a name="4:5">4:5</a> You stumble day and night,
and the false prophets stumble with you;
You have destroyed your own people!

<a name="4:6">4:6</a> You have destroyed my people
by failing to acknowledge me!
Because you refuse to acknowledge me,
I will reject you as my priests.
Because you reject the law of your God,
I will reject your descendants.

<a name="4:7">4:7</a> The more the priests increased in numbers,
the more they rebelled against me;
They have turned their glorious calling
into a shameful disgrace!

<a name="4:8">4:8</a> They feed on the sin offerings of my people,
their appetites long for their iniquity!

<a name="4:9">4:9</a> I will deal with the people and priest together:
I will punish them both for their ways,
and I will repay them for their deeds.

<a name="4:10">4:10</a> They will eat, but not be satisfied;
they will engage in prostitution, but not increase in numbers;
because they have abandoned the Lord
by pursuing other gods.

## Judgment of Pagan Idolatry and Cultic Prostitution

<a name="4:11">4:11</a> Old and new wine
take away the understanding of my people.

<a name="4:12">4:12</a> They consult their wooden idols,
and their diviner’s staff answers with an oracle.
The wind of prostitution blows them astray;
they commit spiritual adultery against their God.

<a name="4:13">4:13</a> They sacrifice on the mountaintops,
and burn offerings on the hills;
they sacrifice under oak, poplar, and terebinth,
because their shade is so pleasant.
As a result, your daughters have become cult prostitutes,
and your daughters-in-law commit adultery!

<a name="4:14">4:14</a> I will not punish your daughters when they commit prostitution,
nor your daughters-in-law when they commit adultery.
For the men consort with harlots,
they sacrifice with temple prostitutes.
It is true: “A people that lacks understanding will come to ruin!”

## Warning to Judah: Do Not Join in Israel’s Apostasy!

<a name="4:15">4:15</a> Although you, O Israel, commit adultery,
do not let Judah become guilty!
Do not journey to Gilgal!
Do not go up to Beth-Aven!
Do not swear, “As surely as the Lord lives!”

<a name="4:16">4:16</a> Israel has rebelled like a stubborn heifer!
Soon the Lord will put them out to pasture
like a lamb in a broad field!

<a name="4:17">4:17</a> Ephraim has attached himself to idols;
Do not go near him!

## The Shameful Sinners Will Be Brought to Shame

<a name="4:18">4:18</a> They consume their alcohol,
then engage in cult prostitution;
they dearly love their shameful behavior.

<a name="4:19">4:19</a> A whirlwind has wrapped them in its wings;
they will be brought to shame because of their idolatrous worship.
