---
title: 10
parent: Hosea
other: x
---

## Israel is Guilty of Fertility Cult Worship

<a name="10:1">10:1</a> Israel was a fertile vine,
that yielded fruit.
As his fruit multiplied,
he multiplied altars to Baal.
As his land prospered,
they adorned the fertility pillars.

<a name="10:2">10:2</a> Their heart is slipping;
soon they will be punished for their guilt.
The Lord will break their altars;
he will completely destroy their fertility pillars.

## The Lord Will Punish Israel by Removing its Kings

<a name="10:3">10:3</a> Very soon they will say, “We have no king
since we did not fear the Lord.
But what can a king do for us anyway?”

<a name="10:4">10:4</a> They utter empty words,
taking false oaths and making empty agreements.
Therefore legal disputes sprout up
like poisonous weeds in the furrows of a plowed field.

## The Calf Idol and Idolaters of Samaria Will Be Exiled

<a name="10:5">10:5</a> The inhabitants of Samaria will lament over the calf idol of Beth-Aven.
Its people will mourn over it;
its idolatrous priests will wail over it,
because its splendor will be taken from them into exile.

<a name="10:6">10:6</a> Even the calf idol will be carried to Assyria,
as tribute for the great king.
Ephraim will be disgraced;
Israel will be put to shame because of its wooden idol.

<a name="10:7">10:7</a> Samaria and its king will be carried off
like a twig on the surface of the waters.

<a name="10:8">10:8</a> The high places of the “House of Wickedness” will be destroyed;
it is the place where Israel sins.
Thorns and thistles will grow up over its altars.
Then they will say to the mountains, “Cover us!”
and to the hills, “Fall on us!”

## Failure to Learn from the Sin and Judgment of Gibeah

<a name="10:9">10:9</a> O Israel, you have sinned since the time of Gibeah,
and there you have remained.
Did not war overtake the evildoers in Gibeah?

<a name="10:10">10:10</a> When I please, I will discipline them;
I will gather nations together to attack them,
to bind them in chains for their two sins.

## Fertility Imagery: Plowing, Sowing, and Reaping

<a name="10:11">10:11</a> Ephraim was a well-trained heifer who loved to thresh grain;
I myself put a fine yoke on her neck.
I will harness Ephraim.
Let Judah plow!
Let Jacob break up the unplowed ground for himself!

<a name="10:12">10:12</a> Sow righteousness for yourselves,
Reap unfailing love.
Break up the unplowed ground for yourselves,
for it is time to seek the Lord,
until he comes and showers deliverance on you.

<a name="10:13">10:13</a> But you have plowed wickedness,
you have reaped injustice,
you have eaten the fruit of deception.
Because you have depended on your chariots,
you have relied on your many warriors.

## Bethel Will Be Destroyed Like Beth Arbel

<a name="10:14">10:14</a> The roar of battle will rise against your people;
all your fortresses will be devastated,
just as Shalman devastated Beth Arbel on the day of battle,
when mothers were dashed to the ground with their children.

<a name="10:15">10:15</a> So will it happen to you, O Bethel,
because of your great wickedness!
When that day dawns,
the king of Israel will be destroyed.
