---
title: 12
parent: Hosea
other: x
---

<a name="12:1">12:1</a> Ephraim continually feeds on the wind;
he chases the east wind all day;
he multiplies lies and violence.
They make treaties with Assyria,
and send olive oil as tribute to Egypt.

<a name="12:2">12:2</a> The Lord also has a covenant lawsuit against Judah;
he will punish Jacob according to his ways
and repay him according to his deeds.

## Israel Must Return to the God of Jacob

<a name="12:3">12:3</a> In the womb he attacked his brother;
in his manly vigor he struggled with God.

<a name="12:4">12:4</a> He struggled with an angel and prevailed;
he wept and begged for his favor.
He found God at Bethel,
and there he spoke with him!

<a name="12:5">12:5</a> As for the Lord God Almighty,
the Lord is the name by which he is remembered!

<a name="12:6">12:6</a> But you must return to your God,
by maintaining love and justice,
and by waiting for your God to return to you.

## The Lord Refutes Israel’s False Claim of Innocence

<a name="12:7">12:7</a> The businessmen love to cheat;
they use dishonest scales.

<a name="12:8">12:8</a> Ephraim boasts, “I am very rich!
I have become wealthy!
In all that I have done to gain my wealth,
no one can accuse me of any offense that is actually sinful.”

<a name="12:9">12:9</a> “I am the Lord your God who brought you out of Egypt;
I will make you live in tents again as in the days of old.

<a name="12:10">12:10</a> I spoke to the prophets;
I myself revealed many visions,
I spoke in parables through the prophets.”

<a name="12:11">12:11</a> Is there idolatry in Gilead?
Certainly its inhabitants will come to nothing!
Do they sacrifice bulls in Gilgal?
Surely their altars will be like stones heaped up on a plowed field!

## Jacob in Aram, Israel in Egypt, and Ephraim in Trouble

<a name="12:12">12:12</a> Jacob fled to the country of Aram,
then Israel worked to acquire a wife;
he tended sheep to pay for her.

<a name="12:13">12:13</a> The Lord brought Israel out of Egypt by a prophet,
and due to a prophet Israel was preserved alive.

<a name="12:14">12:14</a> But Ephraim bitterly provoked him to anger;
so he will hold him accountable for the blood he has shed,
his Lord will repay him for the contempt he has shown.
