---
title: 08
parent: 2 Samuel
other: x
---

## David Subjugates Nearby Nations

<a name="8:1">8:1</a> Later David defeated the Philistines and subdued them. David took Metheg Ammah away from the Philistines. <a name="8:2">8:2</a> He defeated the Moabites. He made them lie on the ground and then used a rope to measure them off. He put two-thirds of them to death and spared the other third. The Moabites became David’s subjects and brought tribute. <a name="8:3">8:3</a> David defeated King Hadadezer son of Rehob of Zobah when he came to restore his authority over the Euphrates River. <a name="8:4">8:4</a> David seized from him seventeen hundred charioteers and twenty thousand infantrymen. David cut the hamstrings of all but a hundred of the chariot horses. <a name="8:5">8:5</a> The Arameans of Damascus came to help King Hadadezer of Zobah, but David killed twenty-two thousand of the Arameans. <a name="8:6">8:6</a> David placed garrisons in the territory of the Arameans of Damascus; the Arameans became David’s subjects and brought tribute. The Lord protected David wherever he campaigned. <a name="8:7">8:7</a> David took the golden shields that belonged to Hadadezer’s servants and brought them to Jerusalem. <a name="8:8">8:8</a> From Tebah and Berothai, Hadadezer’s cities, King David took a great deal of bronze.

<a name="8:9">8:9</a> When King Toi of Hamath heard that David had defeated the entire army of Hadadezer, <a name="8:10">8:10</a> he sent his son Joram to King David to extend his best wishes and to pronounce a blessing on him for his victory over Hadadezer, for Toi had been at war with Hadadezer. He brought with him various items made of silver, gold, and bronze. <a name="8:11">8:11</a> King David dedicated these things to the Lord, along with the dedicated silver and gold that he had taken from all the nations that he had subdued, <a name="8:12">8:12</a> including Aram, Moab, the Ammonites, the Philistines, and Amelek. This also included some of the plunder taken from King Hadadezer son of Rehob of Zobah.

<a name="8:13">8:13</a> David became famous when he returned from defeating the Arameans in the Valley of Salt, he defeated eighteen thousand in all. <a name="8:14">8:14</a> He placed garrisons throughout Edom, and all the Edomites became David’s subjects. The Lord protected David wherever he campaigned. <a name="8:15">8:15</a> David reigned over all Israel; he guaranteed justice for all his people.

## David’s Cabinet

<a name="8:16">8:16</a> Joab son of Zeruiah was general of the army; Jehoshaphat son of Ahilud was secretary; <a name="8:17">8:17</a> Zadok son of Ahitub and Ahimelech son of Abiathar were priests; Seraiah was scribe; <a name="8:18">8:18</a> Benaiah son of Jehoida supervised the Kerithites and Pelethites; and David’s sons were priests.

