---
title: 09
parent: 2 Samuel
other: x
---

## David Finds Mephibosheth

<a name="9:1">9:1</a> Then David asked, “Is anyone still left from the family of Saul, so that I might extend kindness to him for the sake of Jonathan?”

<a name="9:2">9:2</a> Now there was a servant from Saul’s house named Ziba. So he was summoned to David. The king asked him, “Are you Ziba?” He replied, “I am.” <a name="9:3">9:3</a> The king asked, “Is there not someone left from Saul’s family, that I might extend God’s kindness to him?” Ziba said to the king, “One of Jonathan’s sons is left; both of his feet are crippled.” <a name="9:4">9:4</a> The king asked him, “Where is he?” Ziba told the king, “He is at the house of Makir son of Ammiel in Lo Debar.

<a name="9:5">9:5</a> So King David had him brought from the house of Makir son of Ammiel in Lo Debar. <a name="9:6">9:6</a> When Mephibosheth, son of Jonathan, the son of Saul, came to David, he bowed low with his face toward the ground. David said, “Mephibosheth?” He replied, “Yes, it is I.”

<a name="9:7">9:7</a> David said to him, “Don’t be afraid, because I will surely extend kindness to you for the sake of Jonathan your father. You will be a regular guest at my table.” <a name="9:8">9:8</a> Then he bowed and said, “Of what importance is your servant, that you show regard for a dead dog like me?”

<a name="9:9">9:9</a> Then the king summoned Ziba, Saul’s attendant, and said to him, “Everything that belonged to Saul and to all his house I hereby give to the grandson of your master. <a name="9:10">9:10</a> You will cultivate the land for him — you and your sons and your servants. You will bring its produce and it will be food for the grandson of your master to eat. Mephibosheth, the grandson of your master, will be a regular guest at my table.” (Now Ziba had fifteen sons and twenty servants.)

<a name="9:11">9:11</a> Ziba said to the king, “Your servant will do everything that my lord the king has instructed his servant.” So Mephibosheth was a regular guest at David’s table as though he were one of the king’s sons.

<a name="9:12">9:12</a> Now Mephibosheth had a young son whose name was Mica. The entire household of Ziba were Mephibosheth’s servants. <a name="9:13">9:13</a> Mephibosheth was living in Jerusalem, for he was a regular guest at the king’s table. But both his feet were crippled.

