---
title: 22
parent: 2 Samuel
other: x
---

## David Sings to the Lord

<a name="22:1">22:1</a> David sang to the Lord the words of this song when the Lord rescued him from the power of all his enemies, including Saul. <a name="22:2">22:2</a> He said:

> “The Lord is my high ridge, my stronghold, my deliverer.
> <a name="22:3">22:3</a> My God is my rocky summit where I take shelter,
> my shield, the horn that saves me, my stronghold,
> my refuge, my savior. You save me from violence.
> <a name="22:4">22:4</a> I called to the Lord, who is worthy of praise,
> and I was delivered from my enemies.
> <a name="22:5">22:5</a> The waves of death engulfed me;
> the currents of chaos overwhelmed me.
> <a name="22:6">22:6</a> The ropes of Sheol tightened around me;
> the snares of death trapped me.
> <a name="22:7">22:7</a> In my distress I called to the Lord;
> I called to my God.
> From his heavenly temple he heard my voice;
> he listened to my cry for help.
> <a name="22:8">22:8</a> The earth heaved and shook;
> the foundations of the sky trembled.
> They heaved because he was angry.
> <a name="22:9">22:9</a> Smoke ascended from his nose;
> fire devoured as it came from his mouth;
> he hurled down fiery coals.
> <a name="22:10">22:10</a> He made the sky sink as he descended;
> a thick cloud was under his feet.
> <a name="22:11">22:11</a> He mounted a winged angel and flew;
> he glided on the wings of the wind.
> <a name="22:12">22:12</a> He shrouded himself in darkness,
> in thick rain clouds.
> <a name="22:13">22:13</a> From the brightness in front of him
> came coals of fire.
> <a name="22:14">22:14</a> The Lord thundered from the sky;
> the Sovereign One shouted.
> <a name="22:15">22:15</a> He shot arrows and scattered them;
> lightning and routed them.
> <a name="22:16">22:16</a> The depths of the sea were exposed;
> the inner regions of the world were uncovered
> by the Lord’s battle cry,
> by the powerful breath from his nose.
> <a name="22:17">22:17</a> He reached down from above and grabbed me;
> he pulled me from the surging water.
> <a name="22:18">22:18</a> He rescued me from my strong enemy,
> from those who hate me,
> for they were too strong for me.
> <a name="22:19">22:19</a> They confronted me in my day of calamity,
> but the Lord helped me.
> <a name="22:20">22:20</a> He brought me out into a wide open place;
> he delivered me because he was pleased with me.
> <a name="22:21">22:21</a> The Lord repaid me for my godly deeds;
> he rewarded my blameless behavior.
> <a name="22:22">22:22</a> For I have obeyed the Lord’s commands;
> I have not rebelled against my God.
> <a name="22:23">22:23</a> For I am aware of all his regulations,
> and I do not reject his rules.
> <a name="22:24">22:24</a> I was blameless before him;
> I kept myself from sinning.
> <a name="22:25">22:25</a> The Lord rewarded me for my godly deeds;
> he took notice of my blameless behavior.
> <a name="22:26">22:26</a> You prove to be loyal to one who is faithful;
> you prove to be trustworthy to one who is innocent.
> <a name="22:27">22:27</a> You prove to be reliable to one who is blameless,
> but you prove to be deceptive to one who is perverse.
> <a name="22:28">22:28</a> You deliver oppressed people,
> but you watch the proud and bring them down.
> <a name="22:29">22:29</a> Indeed, you are my lamp, Lord.
> The Lord illumines the darkness around me.
> <a name="22:30">22:30</a> Indeed, with your help I can charge against an army;
> by my God’s power I can jump over a wall.
> <a name="22:31">22:31</a> The one true God acts in a faithful manner;
> the Lord’s promise is reliable;
> he is a shield to all who take shelter in him.
> <a name="22:32">22:32</a> Indeed, who is God besides the Lord?
> Who is a protector besides our God?
> <a name="22:33">22:33</a> The one true God is my mighty refuge;
> he removes the obstacles in my way.
> <a name="22:34">22:34</a> He gives me the agility of a deer;
> he enables me to negotiate the rugged terrain.
> <a name="22:35">22:35</a> He trains my hands for battle;
> my arms can bend even the strongest bow.
> <a name="22:36">22:36</a> You give me your protective shield;
> your willingness to help enables me to prevail.
> <a name="22:37">22:37</a> You widen my path;
> my feet do not slip.
> <a name="22:38">22:38</a> I chase my enemies and destroy them;
> I do not turn back until I wipe them out.
> <a name="22:39">22:39</a> I wipe them out and beat them to death;
> they cannot get up;
> they fall at my feet.
> <a name="22:40">22:40</a> You give me strength for battle;
> you make my foes kneel before me.
> <a name="22:41">22:41</a> You make my enemies retreat;
> I destroy those who hate me.
> <a name="22:42">22:42</a> They cry out, but there is no one to help them;
> they cry out to the Lord, but he does not answer them.
> <a name="22:43">22:43</a> I grind them as fine as the dust of the ground;
> I crush them and stomp on them like clay in the streets.
> <a name="22:44">22:44</a> You rescue me from a hostile army;
> you preserve me as a leader of nations;
> people over whom I had no authority are now my subjects.
> <a name="22:45">22:45</a> Foreigners are powerless before me;
> when they hear of my exploits, they submit to me.
> <a name="22:46">22:46</a> Foreigners lose their courage;
> they shake with fear as they leave their strongholds.
> <a name="22:47">22:47</a> The Lord is alive!
> My protector is praiseworthy!
> The God who delivers me is exalted as king!
> <a name="22:48">22:48</a> The one true God completely vindicates me;
> he makes nations submit to me.
> <a name="22:49">22:49</a> He delivers me from my enemies;
> you snatch me away from those who attack me;
> you rescue me from violent men.
> <a name="22:50">22:50</a> So I will give you thanks, O Lord, before the nations!
> I will sing praises to you.
> <a name="22:51">22:51</a> He gives his chosen king magnificent victories;
> he is faithful to his chosen ruler,
> to David and to his descendants forever.”

