---
title: 25
parent: Genesis
other: x
---

## The Death of Abraham

<a name="25:1">25:1</a> Abraham had taken another wife, named Keturah. <a name="25:2">25:2</a> She bore him Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak, and Shuah. <a name="25:3">25:3</a> Jokshan became the father of Sheba and Dedan. The descendants of Dedan were the Asshurites, Letushites, and Leummites. <a name="25:4">25:4</a> The sons of Midian were Ephah, Epher, Hanoch, Abida, and Eldaah. All these were descendants of Keturah.

<a name="25:5">25:5</a> Everything he owned Abraham left to his son Isaac. <a name="25:6">25:6</a> But while he was still alive, Abraham gave gifts to the sons of his concubines and sent them off to the east, away from his son Isaac.

<a name="25:7">25:7</a> Abraham lived a total of one hundred and seventy-five years. <a name="25:8">25:8</a> Then Abraham breathed his last and died at a good old age, an old man who had lived a full life. He joined his ancestors. <a name="25:9">25:9</a> His sons Isaac and Ishmael buried him in the cave of Machpelah near Mamre, in the field of Ephron the son of Zohar, the Hethite. <a name="25:10">25:10</a> This was the field Abraham had purchased from the sons of Heth. There Abraham was buried with his wife Sarah. <a name="25:11">25:11</a> After Abraham’s death, God blessed his son Isaac. Isaac lived near Beer Lahai Roi.

## The Sons of Ishmael

<a name="25:12">25:12</a> This is the account of Abraham’s son Ishmael, whom Hagar the Egyptian, Sarah’s servant, bore to Abraham.

<a name="25:13">25:13</a> These are the names of Ishmael’s sons, by their names according to their records: Nebaioth (Ishmael’s firstborn), Kedar, Adbeel, Mibsam, <a name="25:14">25:14</a> Mishma, Dumah, Massa, <a name="25:15">25:15</a> Hadad, Tema, Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah. <a name="25:16">25:16</a> These are the sons of Ishmael, and these are their names by their settlements and their camps — twelve princes according to their clans.

<a name="25:17">25:17</a> Ishmael lived a total of one hundred and thirty-seven years. He breathed his last and died; then he joined his ancestors. <a name="25:18">25:18</a> His descendants settled from Havilah to Shur, which runs next to Egypt all the way to Asshur. They settled away from all their relatives.

## Jacob and Esau

<a name="25:19">25:19</a> This is the account of Isaac, the son of Abraham.

Abraham became the father of Isaac. <a name="25:20">25:20</a> When Isaac was forty years old, he married Rebekah, the daughter of Bethuel the Aramean from Paddan Aram and sister of Laban the Aramean.

<a name="25:21">25:21</a> Isaac prayed to the Lord on behalf of his wife because she was childless. The Lord answered his prayer, and his wife Rebekah became pregnant. <a name="25:22">25:22</a> But the children struggled inside her, and she said, “If it is going to be like this, I’m not so sure I want to be pregnant!” So she asked the Lord, <a name="25:23">25:23</a> and the Lord said to her,

> “Two nations are in your womb,
> and two peoples will be separated from within you.
> One people will be stronger than the other,
> and the older will serve the younger.”

<a name="25:24">25:24</a> When the time came for Rebekah to give birth, there were twins in her womb. <a name="25:25">25:25</a> The first came out reddish all over, like a hairy garment, so they named him Esau. <a name="25:26">25:26</a> When his brother came out with his hand clutching Esau’s heel, they named him Jacob. Isaac was sixty years old when they were born.

<a name="25:27">25:27</a> When the boys grew up, Esau became a skilled hunter, a man of the open fields, but Jacob was an even-tempered man, living in tents. <a name="25:28">25:28</a> Isaac loved Esau because he had a taste for fresh game, but Rebekah loved Jacob.

<a name="25:29">25:29</a> Now Jacob cooked some stew, and when Esau came in from the open fields, he was famished. <a name="25:30">25:30</a> So Esau said to Jacob, “Feed me some of the red stuff — yes, this red stuff — because I’m starving!” (That is why he was also called Edom.)

<a name="25:31">25:31</a> But Jacob replied, “First sell me your birthright.” <a name="25:32">25:32</a> “Look,” said Esau, “I’m about to die! What use is the birthright to me?” <a name="25:33">25:33</a> But Jacob said, “Swear an oath to me now.” So Esau swore an oath to him and sold his birthright to Jacob.

<a name="25:34">25:34</a> Then Jacob gave Esau some bread and lentil stew; Esau ate and drank, then got up and went out. So Esau despised his birthright.
