---
title: 07
parent: 2 Samuel
other: x
---

## The Lord Establishes a Covenant with David

<a name="7:1">7:1</a> The king settled into his palace, for the Lord gave him relief from all his enemies on all sides. <a name="7:2">7:2</a> The king said to Nathan the prophet, “Look! I am living in a palace made from cedar, while the ark of God sits in the middle of a tent.” <a name="7:3">7:3</a> Nathan replied to the king, “You should go and do whatever you have in mind, for the Lord is with you.” <a name="7:4">7:4</a> That night the Lord told Nathan, <a name="7:5">7:5</a> “Go, tell my servant David: ‘This is what the Lord says: Do you really intend to build a house for me to live in? <a name="7:6">7:6</a> I have not lived in a house from the time I brought the Israelites up from Egypt to the present day. Instead, I was traveling with them and living in a tent. <a name="7:7">7:7</a> Wherever I moved among all the Israelites, I did not say to any of the leaders whom I appointed to care for my people Israel, “Why have you not built me a house made from cedar?”’

<a name="7:8">7:8</a> “So now, say this to my servant David: This is what the Lord of hosts says: “I took you from the pasture and from your work as a shepherd to make you a leader of my people Israel. <a name="7:9">7:9</a> I was with you wherever you went, and I defeated all your enemies before you. Now I will make you as famous as the great men of the earth. <a name="7:10">7:10</a> I will establish a place for my people Israel and settle them there; they will live there and not be disturbed any more. Violent men will not oppress them again, as they did in the beginning <a name="7:11">7:11</a> and during the time when I appointed judges to lead my people Israel. Instead, I will give you rest from all your enemies. The Lord declares to you that he himself will build a house for you. <a name="7:12">7:12</a> When the time comes for you to die, I will raise up your descendant, one of your own sons, to succeed you, and I will establish his kingdom. <a name="7:13">7:13</a> He will build a house for my name, and I will make his dynasty permanent. <a name="7:14">7:14</a> I will become his father and he will become my son. When he sins, I will correct him with the rod of men and with wounds inflicted by human beings. <a name="7:15">7:15</a> But my loyal love will not be removed from him as I removed it from Saul, whom I removed from before you. <a name="7:16">7:16</a> Your house and your kingdom will stand before me permanently; your dynasty will be permanent.” <a name="7:17">7:17</a> Nathan told all these words that were revealed to him.

## David Offers a Prayer to God

<a name="7:18">7:18</a> King David went in, sat before the Lord, and said, “Who am I, O Lord God, and what is my family that you should have brought me to this point? <a name="7:19">7:19</a> And you didn’t stop there, O Lord God! You have also spoken about the future of your servant’s family. Is this your usual way of dealing with men, O Lord God? <a name="7:20">7:20</a> What more can David say to you? You have given your servant special recognition, O Lord God! <a name="7:21">7:21</a> For the sake of your promise and according to your purpose you have done this great thing in order to reveal it to your servant. <a name="7:22">7:22</a> Therefore you are great, O Lord God, for there is none like you. There is no god besides you. What we have heard is true. <a name="7:23">7:23</a> Who is like your people, Israel, a unique nation on the earth? Their God went to claim a nation for himself and to make a name for himself! You did great and awesome acts for your land before your people whom you delivered for yourself from the Egyptian empire and its gods. <a name="7:24">7:24</a> You made Israel your very own people for all time. You, O Lord, became their God. <a name="7:25">7:25</a> So now, O Lord God, make this promise you have made about your servant and his family a permanent reality. Do as you promised, <a name="7:26">7:26</a> so you may gain lasting fame, as people say, ‘The Lord of hosts is God over Israel!’ The dynasty of your servant David will be established before you, <a name="7:27">7:27</a> for you, O Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, have told your servant, ‘I will build you a dynasty.’ That is why your servant has had the courage to pray this prayer to you. <a name="7:28">7:28</a> Now, O Sovereign Lord, you are the true God! May your words prove to be true! You have made this good promise to your servant! <a name="7:29">7:29</a> Now be willing to bless your servant’s dynasty so that it may stand permanently before you, for you, O Sovereign Lord, have spoken. By your blessing may your servant’s dynasty be blessed on into the future!”

