---
title: 14
parent: Matthew
other: x
---

## The Death of John the Baptist

<a name="14:1">14:1</a> At that time Herod the tetrarch heard reports about Jesus, <a name="14:2">14:2</a> and he said to his servants, “This is John the Baptist. He has been raised from the dead! And because of this, miraculous powers are at work in him.” <a name="14:3">14:3</a> For Herod had arrested John, bound him, and put him in prison on account of Herodias, his brother Philip’s wife, <a name="14:4">14:4</a> because John had repeatedly told him, “It is not lawful for you to have her.” <a name="14:5">14:5</a> Although Herod wanted to kill John, he feared the crowd because they accepted John as a prophet. <a name="14:6">14:6</a> But on Herod’s birthday, the daughter of Herodias danced before them and pleased Herod, <a name="14:7">14:7</a> so much that he promised with an oath to give her whatever she asked. <a name="14:8">14:8</a> Instructed by her mother, she said, “Give me the head of John the Baptist here on a platter.” <a name="14:9">14:9</a> Although it grieved the king, because of his oath and the dinner guests he commanded it to be given. <a name="14:10">14:10</a> So he sent and had John beheaded in the prison. <a name="14:11">14:11</a> His head was brought on a platter and given to the girl, and she brought it to her mother. <a name="14:12">14:12</a> Then John’s disciples came and took the body and buried it and went and told Jesus.

## The Feeding of the Five Thousand

<a name="14:13">14:13</a> Now when Jesus heard this he went away from there privately in a boat to an isolated place. But when the crowd heard about it, they followed him on foot from the towns. <a name="14:14">14:14</a> As he got out he saw the large crowd, and he had compassion on them and healed their sick. <a name="14:15">14:15</a> When evening arrived, his disciples came to him saying, “This is an isolated place and the hour is already late. Send the crowds away so that they can go into the villages and buy food for themselves.” <a name="14:16">14:16</a> But he replied, “They don’t need to go. You give them something to eat.” <a name="14:17">14:17</a> They said to him, “We have here only five loaves and two fish.” <a name="14:18">14:18</a> “Bring them here to me,” he replied. <a name="14:19">14:19</a> Then he instructed the crowds to sit down on the grass. He took the five loaves and two fish, and looking up to heaven he gave thanks and broke the loaves. He gave them to the disciples, who in turn gave them to the crowds. <a name="14:20">14:20</a> They all ate and were satisfied, and they picked up the broken pieces left over, twelve baskets full. <a name="14:21">14:21</a> Not counting women and children, there were about five thousand men who ate.

## Walking on Water

<a name="14:22">14:22</a> Immediately Jesus made the disciples get into the boat and go ahead of him to the other side, while he dispersed the crowds. <a name="14:23">14:23</a> And after he sent the crowds away, he went up the mountain by himself to pray. When evening came, he was there alone. <a name="14:24">14:24</a> Meanwhile the boat, already far from land, was taking a beating from the waves because the wind was against it. <a name="14:25">14:25</a> As the night was ending, Jesus came to them walking on the sea. <a name="14:26">14:26</a> When the disciples saw him walking on the water they were terrified and said, “It’s a ghost!” and cried out with fear. <a name="14:27">14:27</a> But immediately Jesus spoke to them: “Have courage! It is I. Do not be afraid.” <a name="14:28">14:28</a> Peter said to him, “Lord, if it is you, order me to come to you on the water.” <a name="14:29">14:29</a> So he said, “Come.” Peter got out of the boat, walked on the water, and came toward Jesus. <a name="14:30">14:30</a> But when he saw the strong wind he became afraid. And starting to sink, he cried out, “Lord, save me!” <a name="14:31">14:31</a> Immediately Jesus reached out his hand and caught him, saying to him, “You of little faith, why did you doubt?” <a name="14:32">14:32</a> When they went up into the boat, the wind ceased. <a name="14:33">14:33</a> Then those who were in the boat worshiped him, saying, “Truly you are the Son of God.”

<a name="14:34">14:34</a> After they had crossed over, they came to land at Gennesaret. <a name="14:35">14:35</a> When the people there recognized him, they sent word into all the surrounding area, and they brought all their sick to him. <a name="14:36">14:36</a> They begged him if they could only touch the edge of his cloak, and all who touched it were healed.