---
title: 15
parent: Matthew
other: x
---

## Breaking Human Traditions

<a name="15:1">15:1</a> Then Pharisees and experts in the law came from Jerusalem to Jesus and said, <a name="15:2">15:2</a> “Why do your disciples disobey the tradition of the elders? For they don’t wash their hands when they eat.” <a name="15:3">15:3</a> He answered them, “And why do you disobey the commandment of God because of your tradition? <a name="15:4">15:4</a> For God said, ‘Honor your father and mother’ and ‘Whoever insults his father or mother must be put to death.’ <a name="15:5">15:5</a> But you say, ‘If someone tells his father or mother, “Whatever help you would have received from me is given to God,” <a name="15:6">15:6</a> he does not need to honor his father.’ You have nullified the word of God on account of your tradition. <a name="15:7">15:7</a> Hypocrites! Isaiah prophesied correctly about you when he said,

> <a name="15:8">15:8</a> ‘This people honors me with their lips,
> but their heart is far from me,
> <a name="15:9">15:9</a> and they worship me in vain,
> teaching as doctrines the commandments of men.’”

## True Defilement

<a name="15:10">15:10</a> Then he called the crowd to him and said, “Listen and understand. <a name="15:11">15:11</a> What defiles a person is not what goes into the mouth; it is what comes out of the mouth that defiles a person.” <a name="15:12">15:12</a> Then the disciples came to him and said, “Do you know that when the Pharisees heard this saying they were offended?” <a name="15:13">15:13</a> And he replied, “Every plant that my heavenly Father did not plant will be uprooted. <a name="15:14">15:14</a> Leave them! They are blind guides. If someone who is blind leads another who is blind, both will fall into a pit.” <a name="15:15">15:15</a> But Peter said to him, “Explain this parable to us.” <a name="15:16">15:16</a> Jesus said, “Even after all this, are you still so foolish? <a name="15:17">15:17</a> Don’t you understand that whatever goes into the mouth enters the stomach and then passes out into the sewer? <a name="15:18">15:18</a> But the things that come out of the mouth come from the heart, and these things defile a person. <a name="15:19">15:19</a> For out of the heart come evil ideas, murder, adultery, sexual immorality, theft, false testimony, slander. <a name="15:20">15:20</a> These are the things that defile a person; it is not eating with unwashed hands that defiles a person.”

## A Canaanite Woman’s Faith

<a name="15:21">15:21</a> After going out from there, Jesus went to the region of Tyre and Sidon. <a name="15:22">15:22</a> A Canaanite woman from that area came and cried out, “Have mercy on me, Lord, Son of David! My daughter is horribly demon-possessed!” <a name="15:23">15:23</a> But he did not answer her a word. Then his disciples came and begged him, “Send her away, because she keeps on crying out after us.” <a name="15:24">15:24</a> So he answered, “I was sent only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.” <a name="15:25">15:25</a> But she came and bowed down before him and said, “Lord, help me!” <a name="15:26">15:26</a> “It is not right to take the children’s bread and throw it to the dogs,” he said. <a name="15:27">15:27</a> “Yes, Lord,” she replied, “but even the dogs eat the crumbs that fall from their masters’ table.” <a name="15:28">15:28</a> Then Jesus answered her, “Woman, your faith is great! Let what you want be done for you.” And her daughter was healed from that hour.

## Healing Many Others

<a name="15:29">15:29</a> When he left there, Jesus went along the Sea of Galilee. Then he went up a mountain, where he sat down. <a name="15:30">15:30</a> Then large crowds came to him bringing with them the lame, blind, crippled, mute, and many others. They laid them at his feet, and he healed them. <a name="15:31">15:31</a> As a result, the crowd was amazed when they saw the mute speaking, the crippled healthy, the lame walking, and the blind seeing, and they praised the God of Israel.

## The Feeding of the Four Thousand

<a name="15:32">15:32</a> Then Jesus called the disciples and said, “I have compassion on the crowd, because they have already been here with me three days and they have nothing to eat. I don’t want to send them away hungry since they may faint on the way.” <a name="15:33">15:33</a> The disciples said to him, “Where can we get enough bread in this desolate place to satisfy so great a crowd?” <a name="15:34">15:34</a> Jesus said to them, “How many loaves do you have?” They replied, “Seven — and a few small fish.” <a name="15:35">15:35</a> After instructing the crowd to sit down on the ground, <a name="15:36">15:36</a> he took the seven loaves and the fish, and after giving thanks, he broke them and began giving them to the disciples, who then gave them to the crowds. <a name="15:37">15:37</a> They all ate and were satisfied, and they picked up the broken pieces left over, seven baskets full. <a name="15:38">15:38</a> Not counting children and women, there were four thousand men who ate. <a name="15:39">15:39</a> After sending away the crowd, he got into the boat and went to the region of Magadan.