---
title: 28
parent: Matthew
other: x
---

## The Resurrection

<a name="28:1">28:1</a> Now after the Sabbath, at dawn on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary went to look at the tomb. <a name="28:2">28:2</a> Suddenly there was a severe earthquake, for an angel of the Lord descending from heaven came and rolled away the stone and sat on it. <a name="28:3">28:3</a> His appearance was like lightning, and his clothes were white as snow. <a name="28:4">28:4</a> The guards were shaken and became like dead men because they were so afraid of him. <a name="28:5">28:5</a> But the angel said to the women, “Do not be afraid; I know that you are looking for Jesus, who was crucified. <a name="28:6">28:6</a> He is not here, for he has been raised, just as he said. Come and see the place where he was lying. <a name="28:7">28:7</a> Then go quickly and tell his disciples, ‘He has been raised from the dead. He is going ahead of you into Galilee. You will see him there.’ Listen, I have told you!” <a name="28:8">28:8</a> So they left the tomb quickly, with fear and great joy, and ran to tell his disciples. <a name="28:9">28:9</a> But Jesus met them, saying, “Greetings!” They came to him, held on to his feet and worshiped him. <a name="28:10">28:10</a> Then Jesus said to them, “Do not be afraid. Go and tell my brothers to go to Galilee. They will see me there.”

## The Guards’ Report

<a name="28:11">28:11</a> While they were going, some of the guard went into the city and told the chief priests everything that had happened. <a name="28:12">28:12</a> After they had assembled with the elders and formed a plan, they gave a large sum of money to the soldiers, <a name="28:13">28:13</a> telling them, “You are to say, ‘His disciples came at night and stole his body while we were asleep.’ <a name="28:14">28:14</a> If this matter is heard before the governor, we will satisfy him and keep you out of trouble.” <a name="28:15">28:15</a> So they took the money and did as they were instructed. And this story is told among the Jews to this day.

## The Great Commission

<a name="28:16">28:16</a> So the eleven disciples went to Galilee to the mountain Jesus had designated. <a name="28:17">28:17</a> When they saw him, they worshiped him, but some doubted. <a name="28:18">28:18</a> Then Jesus came up and said to them, “All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. <a name="28:19">28:19</a> Therefore go and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, <a name="28:20">28:20</a> teaching them to obey everything I have commanded you. And remember, I am with you always, to the end of the age.”