---
title: 09
parent: {{Numbers}}
other: x
---


## Passover Regulations

<a name="9:1">9:1</a> The Lord spoke to Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, in the first month of the second year after they had come out of the land of Egypt:

<a name="9:2">9:2</a> “The Israelites are to observe the Passover at its appointed time. <a name="9:3">9:3</a> In the fourteenth day of this month, at twilight, you are to observe it at its appointed time; you must keep it in accordance with all its statutes and all its customs.” <a name="9:4">9:4</a> So Moses instructed the Israelites to observe the Passover. <a name="9:5">9:5</a> And they observed the Passover on the fourteenth day of the first month at twilight in the wilderness of Sinai; in accordance with all that The Lord had commanded Moses, so the Israelites did.

<a name="9:6">9:6</a> It happened that some men who were defiled by the dead body of a man could not keep the Passover on that day, so they came before Moses and before Aaron on that day. <a name="9:7">9:7</a> And those men said to him, “We are defiled by the dead body of a man; why are we kept back from offering The Lord’s offering at its appointed time among the Israelites?” <a name="9:8">9:8</a> So Moses said to them, “Remain here and I will hear what The Lord will command concerning you.”

<a name="9:9">9:9</a> The Lord spoke to Moses: <a name="9:10">9:10</a> “Tell the Israelites, ‘If any of you or of your posterity become defiled by reason of a dead body, or be on a journey far away, then he may observe the Passover to The Lord. <a name="9:11">9:11</a> They may observe it on the fourteenth day of the second month at twilight; they are to eat it with unleavened bread and bitter herbs. <a name="9:12">9:12</a> They must not leave any of it until morning, nor break any of its bones; they must observe it in accordance with every statute of the Passover.

<a name="9:13">9:13</a> But the man who is clean, and was not on a journey, and fails to keep the Passover, then that person must be cut off from his people; because he did not bring The Lord’s offering at its appointed time, that man must bear his sin. <a name="9:14">9:14</a> If a resident foreigner lives among you and wants to keep the Passover to The Lord, he must do so according to the statute of the Passover, and according to its custom. You must have the same statute for the resident foreigner and for the one who was born in the land.’”

## The Leading of The Lord

<a name="9:15">9:15</a> On the day that the tabernacle was set up, the cloud covered the tabernacle — the tent of the testimony — and from evening until morning there was a fiery appearance over the tabernacle. <a name="9:16">9:16</a> This is the way it used to be continually: The cloud would cover it by day, and there was a fiery appearance by night. <a name="9:17">9:17</a> Whenever the cloud was taken up from the tabernacle, then after that the Israelites would journey; and in whatever place the cloud settled, there the Israelites would camp. <a name="9:18">9:18</a> At the commandment of The Lord the Israelites would journey, and at the commandment of The Lord they would camp; as long as the cloud would settle over the tabernacle they would camp. <a name="9:19">9:19</a> When the cloud prolonged its stay many days, then the Israelites kept the instructions of The Lord and did not journey.

<a name="9:20">9:20</a> When the cloud remained over the tabernacle a number of days, they remained camped according to the commandment of The Lord, and according to the commandment of The Lord they would journey. <a name="9:21">9:21</a> And when the cloud remained only from evening until morning, when the cloud was taken up in the morning, then they journeyed. Whether by day or by night, when the cloud was taken up they journeyed. <a name="9:22">9:22</a> Whether it was for two days, or a month, or a year, that the cloud stayed longer over the tabernacle, the Israelites remained camped without journeying; but when it was taken up, they journeyed. <a name="9:23">9:23</a> At the commandment of The Lord they camped, and at the commandment of The Lord they journeyed; they kept the instructions of The Lord according to the commandment of The Lord, by the authority of Moses.

