---
title: 11
parent: {{Numbers}}
other: x
---


## The Israelites Complain

<a name="11:1">11:1</a> When the people complained, it displeased The Lord. When The Lord heard it, his anger burned, and so the fire of The Lord burned among them and consumed some of the outer parts of the camp. <a name="11:2">11:2</a> When the people cried to Moses, he prayed to The Lord, and the fire died out. <a name="11:3">11:3</a> So he called the name of that place Taberah because the fire of The Lord burned among them.

## Complaints about Food

<a name="11:4">11:4</a> Now the mixed multitude who were among them craved more desirable foods, and so the Israelites wept again and said, “If only we had meat to eat! <a name="11:5">11:5</a> We remember the fish we used to eat freely in Egypt, the cucumbers, the melons, the leeks, the onions, and the garlic. <a name="11:6">11:6</a> But now we are dried up, and there is nothing at all before us except the manna.” <a name="11:7">11:7</a> Now the manna was like coriander seed, and its color like the color of bdellium. <a name="11:8">11:8</a> And the people went about and gathered it, and ground it with mills or pounded it in mortars; they baked it in pans and made cakes of it. It tasted like fresh olive oil. <a name="11:9">11:9</a> And when the dew came down on the camp in the night, the manna fell with it.

## Moses’ Complaint to The Lord

<a name="11:10">11:10</a> Moses heard the people weeping throughout their families, everyone at the door of his tent; and when the anger of The Lord was kindled greatly, Moses was also displeased. <a name="11:11">11:11</a> And Moses said to The Lord, “Why have you afflicted your servant? Why have I not found favor in your sight, that you lay the burden of all this people on me? <a name="11:12">11:12</a> Did I conceive all this people? Did I produce them, that you should say to me, ‘Carry them in your bosom, as a foster father bears a nursing child,’ to the land which you swore to their fathers? <a name="11:13">11:13</a> From where shall I get meat to give to all this people, for they cry to me, ‘Give us meat, that we may eat!’ <a name="11:14">11:14</a> I am not able to bear all this people alone, because it is too heavy for me! <a name="11:15">11:15</a> But if you are going to deal with me like this, then kill me immediately. If I have found favor in your sight then do not let me see my trouble.”

## The Response of God

<a name="11:16">11:16</a> The Lord said to Moses, “Gather to me seventy men of the elders of Israel, whom you know are elders of the people and officials over them, and bring them to the tent of meeting; let them take their position there with you. <a name="11:17">11:17</a> Then I will come down and speak with you there, and I will take part of the spirit that is on you, and will put it on them, and they will bear some of the burden of the people with you, so that you do not bear it by yourself.

<a name="11:18">11:18</a> “And say to the people, ‘Sanctify yourselves for tomorrow, and you will eat meat, for you have wept in the hearing of The Lord, saying, “Who will give us meat to eat, for life was good for us in Egypt?” Therefore The Lord will give you meat, and you will eat. <a name="11:19">11:19</a> You will eat, not just one day, nor two days, nor five days, nor ten days, nor twenty days, <a name="11:20">11:20</a> but a whole month, until it comes out your nostrils and makes you sick, because you have despised The Lord who is among you and have wept before him, saying, “Why did we ever come out of Egypt?”’”

<a name="11:21">11:21</a> Moses said, “The people around me are six hundred thousand on foot; but you say, ‘I will give them meat, that they may eat for a whole month.’ <a name="11:22">11:22</a> Would they have enough if the flocks and the herds were slain for them? If all the fish of the sea were caught for them, would they have enough?” <a name="11:23">11:23</a> And The Lord said to Moses, “Is The Lord’s hand shortened? Now you will see whether my word to you will happen or not.”

<a name="11:24">11:24</a> So Moses went out and told the people the words of The Lord. He then gathered seventy men of the elders of the people and had them stand around the tabernacle. <a name="11:25">11:25</a> And The Lord came down in the cloud and spoke to them, and he took some of the spirit that was on Moses and put it on the seventy elders. When the Spirit rested on them, they prophesied, but did not do so again.

## Eldad and Medad

<a name="11:26">11:26</a> But two men remained in the camp; the name of one was Eldad, and the name of the other Medad. And the spirit rested on them. Now they were among those in the registration, but had not gone to the tabernacle. So they prophesied in the camp. <a name="11:27">11:27</a> And a young man ran and told Moses, and he said, “Eldad and Medad are prophesying in the camp.” <a name="11:28">11:28</a> Joshua son of Nun, the servant of Moses, one of his choice young men, said, “My lord Moses, stop them!” <a name="11:29">11:29</a> Moses said to him, “Are you envious for me? O that all The Lord’s people were prophets, that The Lord would put his spirit on them!” <a name="11:30">11:30</a> Then Moses returned to the camp along with the elders of Israel.

## Provision of Quail

<a name="11:31">11:31</a> Now a wind went forth from The Lord, and brought quail from the sea, and let them fall near the camp, about a day’s journey on this side, and about a day’s journey on the other side, round about the camp, and about three feet high on the surface of the ground. <a name="11:32">11:32</a> And the people stayed up all that day, all that night, and all the next day, and gathered the quail. The one who gathered the least gathered ten homers, and they spread them out for themselves round about the camp. <a name="11:33">11:33</a> But while the meat was still between their teeth, before it was chewed, the anger of The Lord burned against the people, and The Lord struck the people with a very great plague.

<a name="11:34">11:34</a> So the name of that place was called Kibroth Hattaavah, because there they buried the people that craved different food. <a name="11:35">11:35</a> The people journeyed from Kibroth Hattaavah to Hazeroth, and they stayed at Hazeroth.

