---
title: 17
parent: Numbers
other: x
---


## The Budding of Aaron’s Rod

<a name="17:1">17:1</a> The Lord spoke to Moses: <a name="17:2">17:2</a> “Speak to the Israelites, and receive from them a rod from each tribe, one from every tribal leader, twelve rods; you must write each man’s name on his rod. <a name="17:3">17:3</a> You must write Aaron’s name on the rod of Levi; for one rod is for the head of every tribe. <a name="17:4">17:4</a> You must lay them in the tent of meeting before the ark of the covenant where I meet with you. <a name="17:5">17:5</a> And the rod of the man whom I choose will blossom; so I will rid myself of the murmurings of the Israelites, which they murmur against you.”

<a name="17:6">17:6</a> So Moses spoke to the Israelites, and each of their leaders gave him a rod, one for each leader, according to their tribes — twelve rods; the rod of Aaron was among their rods. <a name="17:7">17:7</a> Then Moses placed the rods before The Lord in the tent of the testimony.

<a name="17:8">17:8</a> On the next day Moses went into the tent of the testimony — and the rod of Aaron for the house of Levi had budded, and brought forth buds, and bloomed blossoms, and yielded almonds! <a name="17:9">17:9</a> So Moses brought out all the rods from before The Lord to all the Israelites. They looked at them, and each man took his rod.

## The Memorial

<a name="17:10">17:10</a> The Lord said to Moses, “Bring Aaron’s rod back before the testimony to be preserved for a sign to the rebels so that you may bring their murmurings to an end before me, that they may not die.” <a name="17:11">17:11</a> So Moses did as The Lord commanded him — this is what he did.

<a name="17:12">17:12</a> The Israelites said to Moses, “We are bound to die! We perish, we all perish! <a name="17:13">17:13</a> Anyone who even comes close to the tabernacle of The Lord will die. Are we all to die?”

