---
title: 23
parent: Numbers
other: x
---


## Balaam Blesses Israel

<a name="23:1">23:1</a> Balaam said to Balak, “Build me seven altars here, and prepare for me here seven bulls and seven rams.” <a name="23:2">23:2</a> So Balak did just as Balaam had said. Balak and Balaam then offered on each altar a bull and a ram. <a name="23:3">23:3</a> Balaam said to Balak, “Station yourself by your burnt offering, and I will go off; perhaps The Lord will come to meet me, and whatever he reveals to me I will tell you.” Then he went to a deserted height.

<a name="23:4">23:4</a> Then God met Balaam, who said to him, “I have prepared seven altars, and I have offered on each altar a bull and a ram.” <a name="23:5">23:5</a> Then The Lord put a message in Balaam’s mouth and said, “Return to Balak, and speak what I tell you.”

<a name="23:6">23:6</a> So he returned to him, and he was still standing by his burnt offering, he and all the princes of Moab. <a name="23:7">23:7</a> Then Balaam took up his oracle, and said,

> “Balak, the king of Moab, brought me from Aram,
> out of the mountains of the east, saying,
> ‘Come, pronounce a curse on Jacob for me;
> come, denounce Israel.’
> <a name="23:8">23:8</a> How can I curse one whom God has not cursed,
> or how can I denounce one whom The Lord has not denounced?
> <a name="23:9">23:9</a> For from the top of the rocks I see them;
> from the hills I watch them.
> Indeed, a nation that lives alone,
> and it will not be reckoned among the nations.
> <a name="23:10">23:10</a> Who can count the dust of Jacob,
> Or as a number, the fourth part of Israel?
> Let me die the death of the upright,
> and let my latter end be like theirs.”

## Balaam Relocates

<a name="23:11">23:11</a> Then Balak said to Balaam, “What have you done to me? I brought you to curse my enemies, but on the contrary you have only blessed them!” <a name="23:12">23:12</a> He replied, “Must I not take heed to speak what The Lord has put in my mouth?” <a name="23:13">23:13</a> Balak said to him, “Please come with me to another place from which you may observe them. You will see only a part of them, but you will not see all of them. Curse them for me from there.”

<a name="23:14">23:14</a> So Balak brought Balaam to the field of Zophim, to the top of Pisgah, where he built seven altars and offered a bull and a ram on each altar. <a name="23:15">23:15</a> And Balaam said to Balak, “Station yourself here by your burnt offering, while I meet The Lord there. <a name="23:16">23:16</a> Then The Lord met Balaam and put a word in his mouth and said, “Return to Balak, and speak what I tell you.” <a name="23:17">23:17</a> When he came to him, he was still standing by his burnt offering, along with the princes of Moab. And Balak said to him, “What has The Lord spoken?”

## Balaam Prophesies Again

<a name="23:18">23:18</a> Balaam uttered his oracle, and said,

> “Rise up, Balak, and hear;
> Listen to me, son of Zippor:
> <a name="23:19">23:19</a> God is not a man, that he should lie,
> nor a human being, that he should repent.
> Has he said, and will he not do it?
> Or has he spoken, and will he not establish it?
> <a name="23:20">23:20</a> Indeed, I have received a command to bless;
> he has blessed, and I cannot reverse it.
> <a name="23:21">23:21</a> He has not looked on iniquity in Jacob,
> nor has he seen trouble in Israel.
> The Lord their God is with them;
> the acclamation for a king is among them.
> <a name="23:22">23:22</a> God brought them out of Egypt.
> They have, as it were, the strength of a wild bull.
> <a name="23:23">23:23</a> For there is no spell against Jacob,
> nor is there any divination against Israel.
> At this time it must be said of Jacob
> and of Israel, ‘Look at what God has done!’
> <a name="23:24">23:24</a> Indeed, the people will rise up like a lion,
> and like a lion lifts himself up;
> they will not lie down until they eat their prey,
> and drink the blood of the slain.”

## Balaam Relocates Yet Again

<a name="23:25">23:25</a> Balak said to Balaam, “Neither curse them at all nor bless them at all!” <a name="23:26">23:26</a> But Balaam replied to Balak, “Did I not tell you, ‘All that The Lord speaks, I must do’?”

<a name="23:27">23:27</a> Balak said to Balaam, “Come, please; I will take you to another place. Perhaps it will please God that you curse them for me from there.” <a name="23:28">23:28</a> So Balak took Balaam to the top of Peor, that looks toward Jeshimon. <a name="23:29">23:29</a> Then Balaam said to Balak, “Build seven altars here for me, and prepare seven bulls and seven rams.” <a name="23:30">23:30</a> So Balak did as Balaam had said, and offered a bull and a ram on each altar.

