---
title: 24
parent: Numbers
other: x
---


## Balaam Prophesies Yet Again

<a name="24:1">24:1</a> When Balaam saw that it pleased The Lord to bless Israel, he did not go as at the other times to seek for omens, but he set his face toward the wilderness. <a name="24:2">24:2</a> When Balaam lifted up his eyes, he saw Israel camped tribe by tribe; and the Spirit of God came upon him. <a name="24:3">24:3</a> Then he uttered this oracle:

> “The oracle of Balaam son of Beor;
> the oracle of the man whose eyes are open;
> <a name="24:4">24:4</a> the oracle of him who hears the words of God,
> who sees a vision from the Almighty,
> although falling flat on the ground with eyes open:
> <a name="24:5">24:5</a> ‘How beautiful are your tents, O Jacob,
> and your habitations, O Israel!
> <a name="24:6">24:6</a> They are like valleys stretched forth,
> like gardens by the river’s side,
> like aloes that The Lord has planted,
> and like cedar trees beside the waters.
> <a name="24:7">24:7</a> He will pour the water out of his buckets,
> and their descendants will be like abundant water;
> their king will be greater than Agag,
> and their kingdom will be exalted.
> <a name="24:8">24:8</a> God brought them out of Egypt.
> They have, as it were, the strength of a young bull;
> they will devour hostile people
> and will break their bones
> and will pierce them through with arrows.
> <a name="24:9">24:9</a> They crouch and lie down like a lion,
> and as a lioness, who can stir him?
> Blessed is he that blesses you,
> and cursed is he that curses you.’”

<a name="24:10">24:10</a> Then Balak became very angry at Balaam, and he struck his hands together. Balak said to Balaam, “I called you to curse my enemies, and look, you have done nothing but bless them these three times! <a name="24:11">24:11</a> So now, flee to your place. I said that I would greatly honor you; but now, The Lord has stood in the way of your honor.”

<a name="24:12">24:12</a> Balaam said to Balak, “Did I not also tell your messengers whom you sent to me, <a name="24:13">24:13</a> ‘If Balak would give me his house full of silver and gold, I cannot go beyond the commandment of The Lord to do either good or evil of my own will, but whatever The Lord tells me I must speak’? <a name="24:14">24:14</a> And now, I am about to go to my people. Come now, and I will advise you as to what this people will do to your people in the future.”

## Balaam Prophesies a Fourth Time

<a name="24:15">24:15</a> Then he uttered this oracle:

> “The oracle of Balaam son of Beor;
> the oracle of the man whose eyes are open;
> <a name="24:16">24:16</a> the oracle of him who hears the words of God,
> and who knows the knowledge of the Most High,
> who sees a vision from the Almighty,
> although falling flat on the ground with eyes open:
> <a name="24:17">24:17</a> ‘I see him, but not now;
> I behold him, but not close at hand.
> A star will march forth out of Jacob,
> and a scepter will rise out of Israel.
> He will crush the skulls of Moab,
> and the heads of all the sons of Sheth.
> <a name="24:18">24:18</a> Edom will be a possession,
> Seir, his enemies, will also be a possession;
> but Israel will act valiantly.
> <a name="24:19">24:19</a> A ruler will be established from Jacob;
> he will destroy the remains of the city.’”

## Balaam’s Final Prophecies

<a name="24:20">24:20</a> Then he looked on Amalek and uttered this oracle:

> “Amalek was the first of the nations,
> but his end will be that he will perish.”
> <a name="24:21">24:21</a> Then he looked on the Kenites and uttered this oracle:
> “Your dwelling place seems strong,
> and your nest is set in a rock.
> <a name="24:22">24:22</a> Nevertheless the Kenite will be consumed.
> How long will Asshur take you away captive?”
> <a name="24:23">24:23</a> Then he uttered this oracle:
> “O, who will live when God does this!
> <a name="24:24">24:24</a> Ships will come from the coast of Kittim,
> and will afflict Asshur, and will afflict Eber,
> and he will also perish forever.”
> <a name="24:25">24:25</a> Balaam got up and went and returned to his place, and Balak also went his way.

