---
title: 26
parent: Numbers
other: x
---


## A Second Census Required

<a name="26:1">26:1</a> After the plague The Lord said to Moses and to Eleazar son of Aaron the priest, <a name="26:2">26:2</a> “Take a census of the whole community of Israelites, from twenty years old and upward, by their clans, everyone who can serve in the army of Israel.” <a name="26:3">26:3</a> So Moses and Eleazar the priest spoke with them in the plains of Moab, by the Jordan River across from Jericho. They said, <a name="26:4">26:4</a> “Number the people from twenty years old and upward, just as The Lord commanded Moses and the Israelites who went out from the land of Egypt.”

## Reuben

<a name="26:5">26:5</a> Reuben was the firstborn of Israel. The Reubenites: from Hanoch, the family of the Hanochites; from Pallu, the family of the Palluites; <a name="26:6">26:6</a> from Hezron, the family of the Hezronites; from Carmi, the family of the Carmites. <a name="26:7">26:7</a> These were the families of the Reubenites; and those numbered of them were 43,730. <a name="26:8">26:8</a> Pallu’s descendant was Eliab. <a name="26:9">26:9</a> Eliab’s descendants were Nemuel, Dathan, and Abiram. It was Dathan and Abiram who as leaders of the community rebelled against Moses and Aaron with the assembly of Korah when they rebelled against The Lord. <a name="26:10">26:10</a> The earth opened its mouth and swallowed them and Korah at the time that assembly died when the fire consumed two hundred fifty men. So they became a warning. <a name="26:11">26:11</a> But the descendants of Korah did not die.

## Simeon

<a name="26:12">26:12</a> The Simeonites by their families: from Nemuel, the family of the Nemuelites; from Jamin, the family of the Jaminites; from Jakin, the family of the Jakinites; <a name="26:13">26:13</a> from Zerah, the family of the Zerahites; and from Shaul, the family of the Shaulites. <a name="26:14">26:14</a> These were the families of the Simeonites, 22,200.

## Gad

<a name="26:15">26:15</a> The Gadites by their families: from Zephon, the family of the Zephonites; from Haggi, the family of the Haggites; from Shuni, the family of the Shunites; <a name="26:16">26:16</a> from Ozni, the family of the Oznites; from Eri, the family of the Erites; <a name="26:17">26:17</a> from Arod, the family of the Arodites, and from Areli, the family of the Arelites. <a name="26:18">26:18</a> These were the families of the Gadites according to those numbered of them, 40,500.

## Judah

<a name="26:19">26:19</a> The descendants of Judah were Er and Onan, but Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan. <a name="26:20">26:20</a> And the Judahites by their families were: from Shelah, the family of the Shelahites; from Perez, the family of the Perezites; and from Zerah, the family of the Zerahites. <a name="26:21">26:21</a> And the Perezites were: from Hezron, the family of the Hezronites; from Hamul, the family of the Hamulites. <a name="26:22">26:22</a> These were the families of Judah according to those numbered of them, 76,500.

## Issachar

<a name="26:23">26:23</a> The Issacharites by their families: from Tola, the family of the Tolaites; from Puah, the family of the Punites; <a name="26:24">26:24</a> from Jashub, the family of the Jashubites; and from Shimron, the family of the Shimronites. <a name="26:25">26:25</a> These were the families of Issachar, according to those numbered of them, 64,300.

## Zebulun

<a name="26:26">26:26</a> The Zebulunites by their families: from Sered, the family of the Sardites; from Elon, the family of the Elonites; from Jahleel, the family of the Jahleelites. <a name="26:27">26:27</a> These were the families of the Zebulunites, according to those numbered of them, 60,500.

## Manasseh

<a name="26:28">26:28</a> The descendants of Joseph by their families: Manasseh and Ephraim. <a name="26:29">26:29</a> The Manassehites: from Machir, the family of the Machirites. Now Machir became the father of Gilead. From Gilead, the family of the Gileadites. <a name="26:30">26:30</a> These were the Gileadites: from Iezer, the family of the Iezerites; from Helek, the family of the Helekites; <a name="26:31">26:31</a> from Asriel, the family of the Asrielites; from Shechem, the family of the Shechemites; <a name="26:32">26:32</a> from Shemida, the family of the Shemidaites; from Hepher, the family of the Hepherites. <a name="26:33">26:33</a> Now Zelophehad son of Hepher had no sons, but only daughters; and the names of the daughters of Zelophehad were Mahlah, Noah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Tirzah. <a name="26:34">26:34</a> These were the families of Manasseh; those numbered of them were 52,700.

## Ephraim

<a name="26:35">26:35</a> These are the Ephraimites by their families: from Shuthelah, the family of the Shuthelahites; from Beker, the family of the Bakrites; from Tahan, the family of the Tahanites. <a name="26:36">26:36</a> Now these were the Shuthelahites: from Eran, the family of the Eranites. <a name="26:37">26:37</a> These were the families of the Ephraimites, according to those numbered of them, 32,500.

## Benjamin

<a name="26:38">26:38</a> The Benjaminites by their families: from Bela, the family of the Belaites; from Ashbel, the family of the Ashbelites; from Ahiram, the family of the Ahiramites; <a name="26:39">26:39</a> from Shupham, the family of the Shuphamites; from Hupham, the family of the Huphamites. <a name="26:40">26:40</a> The descendants of Bela were Ard and Naaman. From Ard, the family of the Ardites; from Naaman, the family of the Naamanites. <a name="26:41">26:41</a> These are the Benjaminites, according to their families, and according to those numbered of them, 45,600.

## Dan

<a name="26:42">26:42</a> These are the Danites by their families: from Shuham, the family of the Shuhamites. These were the families of Dan, according to their families. <a name="26:43">26:43</a> All the families of the Shuhahites according to those numbered of them were 64,400.

## Asher

<a name="26:44">26:44</a> The Asherites by their families: from Imnah, the family of the Imnahites; from Ishvi, the family of the Ishvites; from Beriah, the family of the Beriahites. <a name="26:45">26:45</a> From the Beriahites: from Heber, the family of the Heberites; from Malkiel, the family of the Malkielites. <a name="26:46">26:46</a> Now the name of the daughter of Asher was Sarah. <a name="26:47">26:47</a> These are the families of the Asherites, according to those numbered of them, 53,400.

## Naphtali

<a name="26:48">26:48</a> The Naphtalites by their families: from Jahzeel, the family of the Jahzeelites; from Guni, the family of the Gunites; <a name="26:49">26:49</a> from Jezer, the family of the Jezerites; from Shillem, the family of the Shillemites. <a name="26:50">26:50</a> These were the families of Naphtali according to their families; and those numbered of them were 45,400.

## Total Number and Division of the Land

<a name="26:51">26:51</a> These were those numbered of the Israelites, 601,730.

<a name="26:52">26:52</a> Then The Lord spoke to Moses: <a name="26:53">26:53</a> “To these the land must be divided as an inheritance according to the number of the names. <a name="26:54">26:54</a> To a larger group you will give a larger inheritance, and to a smaller group you will give a smaller inheritance. To each one his inheritance must be given according to his enumeration. <a name="26:55">26:55</a> The land must be divided by lot; and they will inherit in accordance with the names of their ancestral tribes. <a name="26:56">26:56</a> Their inheritance must be apportioned by lot among the larger and smaller groups.

<a name="26:57">26:57</a> And these are those of the Levites who were numbered, after their families: from Gershon, the family of the Gershonites; of Kohath, the family of the Kohathites; from Merari, the family of the Merarites. <a name="26:58">26:58</a> These are the families of the Levites: the family of the Libnites, the family of the Hebronites, the family of the Mahlites, the family of the Mushites, the family of the Korahites. Kohath became the father of Amram. <a name="26:59">26:59</a> Now the name of Amram’s wife was Jochebed, daughter of Levi, who was born to Levi in Egypt. <a name="26:60">26:60</a> And she bore to Amram Aaron, Moses, and Miriam their sister. <a name="26:61">26:61</a> And to Aaron were born Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar. But Nadab and Abihu died when they offered strange fire before The Lord. <a name="26:62">26:62</a> Those numbered of them were 23,000, all males from a month old and upward, for they were not numbered among the Israelites; no inheritance was given to them among the Israelites.

<a name="26:63">26:63</a> These are those who were numbered by Moses and Eleazar the priest, who numbered the Israelites in the plains of Moab along the Jordan River opposite Jericho. <a name="26:64">26:64</a> But there was not a man among these who had been among those numbered by Moses and Aaron the priest when they numbered the Israelites in the wilderness of Sinai. <a name="26:65">26:65</a> For The Lord had said of them, “They will surely die in the wilderness.” And there was not left a single man of them, except Caleb son of Jephunneh and Joshua son of Nun.

