---
title: 33
parent: Numbers
other: x
---


## Wanderings From Egypt to Sinai

<a name="33:1">33:1</a> These are the journeys of the Israelites, who went out of the land of Egypt by their divisions under the authority of Moses and Aaron. <a name="33:2">33:2</a> Moses recorded their departures by their journeys, according to the commandment of The Lord; now these are their journeys according to their departures. <a name="33:3">33:3</a> They departed from Rameses in the first month, on the fifteenth day of the first month; on the day after the Passover the Israelites went out defiantly in the sight of all the Egyptians. <a name="33:4">33:4</a> Now the Egyptians were burying all their firstborn, which The Lord had killed among them; The Lord also executed judgments on their gods.

<a name="33:5">33:5</a> The Israelites journeyed from Rameses and camped in Succoth.

<a name="33:6">33:6</a> They journeyed from Succoth, and camped in Etham, which is on the edge of the wilderness. <a name="33:7">33:7</a> They journeyed from Etham, and turned again to Pi-ha-hiroth, which is before Baal-zephon; and they camped before Migdal. <a name="33:8">33:8</a> They journeyed from Pi-ha-hiroth, and passed through the middle of the sea into the wilderness, and went three days’ journey in the wilderness of Etham, and camped in Marah. <a name="33:9">33:9</a> They journeyed from Marah and came to Elim; in Elim there are twelve fountains of water and seventy palm trees, so they camped there.

<a name="33:10">33:10</a> They journeyed from Elim, and camped by the Red Sea. <a name="33:11">33:11</a> They journeyed from the Red Sea and camped in the wilderness of Zin. <a name="33:12">33:12</a> They journeyed from the wilderness of Zin and camped in Dophka. <a name="33:13">33:13</a> And they journeyed from Dophka, and camped in Alush.

<a name="33:14">33:14</a> They journeyed from Alush and camped at Rephidim, where there was no water for the people to drink. <a name="33:15">33:15</a> They journeyed from Rephidim and camped in the wilderness of Sinai.

## Wanderings in the Wilderness

<a name="33:16">33:16</a> They journeyed from the desert of Sinai and camped at Kibroth Hattaavah. <a name="33:17">33:17</a> They journeyed from Kibroth Hattaavah and camped at Hazeroth. <a name="33:18">33:18</a> They journeyed from Hazeroth and camped in Rithmah. <a name="33:19">33:19</a> They journeyed from Rithmah and camped at Rimmon-parez. <a name="33:20">33:20</a> They journeyed from Rimmon-parez and camped in Libnah. <a name="33:21">33:21</a> They journeyed from Libnah and camped at Rissah. <a name="33:22">33:22</a> They journeyed from Rissah and camped in Kehelathah. <a name="33:23">33:23</a> They journeyed from Kehelathah and camped at Mount Shapher. <a name="33:24">33:24</a> They journeyed from Mount Shapher and camped in Haradah. <a name="33:25">33:25</a> They journeyed from Haradah and camped in Makheloth. <a name="33:26">33:26</a> They journeyed from Makheloth and camped at Tahath. <a name="33:27">33:27</a> They journeyed from Tahath and camped at Tarah. <a name="33:28">33:28</a> They journeyed from Tarah and camped in Mithcah. <a name="33:29">33:29</a> They journeyed from Mithcah and camped in Hashmoneh. <a name="33:30">33:30</a> They journeyed from Hashmoneh and camped in Moseroth. <a name="33:31">33:31</a> They journeyed from Moseroth and camped in Bene-jaakan. <a name="33:32">33:32</a> They journeyed from Bene-jaakan and camped at Hor-haggidgad. <a name="33:33">33:33</a> They journeyed from Hor-haggidgad and camped in Jotbathah. <a name="33:34">33:34</a> They journeyed from Jotbathah and camped in Ebronah. <a name="33:35">33:35</a> They journeyed from Ebronah and camped at Ezion-geber. <a name="33:36">33:36</a> They journeyed from Ezion-geber and camped in the wilderness of Zin, which is Kadesh.

## Wanderings from Kadesh to Moab

<a name="33:37">33:37</a> They journeyed from Kadesh and camped in Mount Hor at the edge of the land of Edom. <a name="33:38">33:38</a> Aaron the priest ascended Mount Hor at the command of The Lord, and he died there in the fortieth year after the Israelites had come out of the land of Egypt on the first day of the fifth month. <a name="33:39">33:39</a> Now Aaron was one hundred twenty-three years old when he died in Mount Hor. <a name="33:40">33:40</a> The king of Arad, the Canaanite king who lived in the south of the land of Canaan, heard of the approach of the Israelites.

<a name="33:41">33:41</a> They journeyed from Mount Hor and camped in Zalmonah. <a name="33:42">33:42</a> They journeyed from Zalmonah and camped in Punon. <a name="33:43">33:43</a> They journeyed from Punon and camped in Oboth. <a name="33:44">33:44</a> They journeyed from Oboth and camped in Iye-abarim, on the border of Moab. <a name="33:45">33:45</a> They journeyed from Iim and camped in Dibon-gad. <a name="33:46">33:46</a> They journeyed from Dibon-gad and camped in Almon-diblathaim. <a name="33:47">33:47</a> They journeyed from Almon-diblathaim and camped in the mountains of Abarim before Nebo. <a name="33:48">33:48</a> They journeyed from the mountains of Abarim and camped in the plains of Moab by the Jordan River across from Jericho. <a name="33:49">33:49</a> They camped by the Jordan, from Beth-jeshimoth as far as Abel-shittim in the plains of Moab.

## At the Border of Canaan

<a name="33:50">33:50</a> The Lord spoke to Moses in the plains of Moab by the Jordan, across from Jericho. He said: <a name="33:51">33:51</a> “Speak to the Israelites and tell them, ‘When you have crossed the Jordan into the land of Canaan, <a name="33:52">33:52</a> you must drive out all the inhabitants of the land before you. Destroy all their carved images, all their molten images, and demolish their high places. <a name="33:53">33:53</a> You must dispossess the inhabitants of the land and live in it, for I have given you the land to possess it. <a name="33:54">33:54</a> You must divide the land by lot for an inheritance among your families. To a larger group you must give a larger inheritance, and to a smaller group you must give a smaller inheritance. Everyone’s inheritance must be in the place where his lot falls. You must inherit according to your ancestral tribes. <a name="33:55">33:55</a> But if you do not drive out the inhabitants of the land before you, then those whom you let remain will be irritants in your eyes and thorns in your side, and will trouble you in the land where you will be living. <a name="33:56">33:56</a> And what I intended to do to them I will do to you.”

