---
title: 34
parent: Numbers
other: x
---


## The Southern Border of the Land

<a name="34:1">34:1</a> Then The Lord spoke to Moses: <a name="34:2">34:2</a> “Give these instructions to the Israelites, and say to them: ‘When you enter Canaan, the land that has been assigned to you as an inheritance, the land of Canaan with its borders, <a name="34:3">34:3</a> your southern border will extend from the wilderness of Zin along the Edomite border, and your southern border will run eastward to the extremity of the Salt Sea, <a name="34:4">34:4</a> and then the border will turn from the south to the Scorpion Ascent, continue to Zin, and then its direction will be from the south to Kadesh Barnea. Then it will go to Hazar Addar and pass over to Azmon. <a name="34:5">34:5</a> There the border will turn from Azmon to the Brook of Egypt, and then its direction is to the sea.

## The Western Border of the Land

<a name="34:6">34:6</a> “‘And for a western border you will have the great Sea. This will be your western border.

## The Northern Border of the Land

<a name="34:7">34:7</a> “‘And this will be your northern border: from the great Sea you will draw a line to Mount Hor; <a name="34:8">34:8</a> from Mount Hor you will draw a line to the entrance to Hamath, and the direction of the border will be to Zedad. <a name="34:9">34:9</a> The border will continue to Ziphron, and its direction will be to Hazar Enan. This will be your northern border.

## The Eastern Border of the Land

<a name="34:10">34:10</a> “‘For your eastern border you will draw a line from Hazar Enan to Shepham. <a name="34:11">34:11</a> The border will run down from Shepham to Riblah, on the east side of Ain, and the border will descend and reach the eastern side of the Sea of Chinnereth. <a name="34:12">34:12</a> Then the border will continue down the Jordan River and its direction will be to the Salt Sea. This will be your land by its borders that surround it.’”

<a name="34:13">34:13</a> Then Moses commanded the Israelites: “This is the land which you will inherit by lot, which The Lord has commanded to be given to the nine and a half tribes, <a name="34:14">34:14</a> because the tribe of the Reubenites by their families and the tribe of the Gadites by their families have received their inheritance, and half of the tribe of Manasseh has received their inheritance. <a name="34:15">34:15</a> The two and a half tribes have received their inheritance on this side of the Jordan, east of Jericho, toward the sunrise.”

## Appointed Officials

<a name="34:16">34:16</a> The Lord said to Moses: <a name="34:17">34:17</a> “These are the names of the men who are to allocate the land to you as an inheritance: Eleazar the priest and Joshua son of Nun. <a name="34:18">34:18</a> You must take one leader from every tribe to assist in allocating the land as an inheritance. <a name="34:19">34:19</a> These are the names of the men: from the tribe of Judah, Caleb son of Jephunneh; <a name="34:20">34:20</a> from the tribe of the Simeonites, Shemuel son of Ammihud; <a name="34:21">34:21</a> from the tribe of Benjamin, Elidad son of Chislon; <a name="34:22">34:22</a> and from the tribe of the Danites, a leader, Bukki son of Jogli. <a name="34:23">34:23</a> From the Josephites, Hanniel son of Ephod, a leader from the tribe of Manasseh; <a name="34:24">34:24</a> from the tribe of the Ephraimites, a leader, Kemuel son of Shiphtan; <a name="34:25">34:25</a> from the tribe of the Zebulunites, a leader, Elizaphan son of Parnach; <a name="34:26">34:26</a> from the tribe of the Issacharites, a leader, Paltiel son of Azzan; <a name="34:27">34:27</a> from the tribe of the Asherites, a leader, Ahihud son of Shelomi; <a name="34:28">34:28</a> and from the tribe of the Naphtalites, a leader, Pedahel son of Ammihud.” <a name="34:29">34:29</a>. These are the ones whom The Lord commanded to divide up the inheritance among the Israelites in the land of Canaan.

