---
title: 21
parent: Isaiah
other: x
---

## The Lord Will Judge Babylon

<a name="21:1">21:1</a> Here is a message about the Desert by the Sea:
Like strong winds blowing in the south,
one invades from the desert,
from a land that is feared.

<a name="21:2">21:2</a> I have received a distressing message:
“The deceiver deceives,
the destroyer destroys.
Attack, you Elamites!
Lay siege, you Medes!
I will put an end to all the groaning!”

<a name="21:3">21:3</a> For this reason my stomach churns;
cramps overwhelm me
like the contractions of a woman in labor.
I am disturbed by what I hear,
horrified by what I see.

<a name="21:4">21:4</a> My heart palpitates,
I shake in fear;
the twilight I desired
has brought me terror.

<a name="21:5">21:5</a> Arrange the table,
lay out the carpet,
eat and drink!
Get up, you officers,
smear oil on the shields!

<a name="21:6">21:6</a> For this is what the sovereign master has told me:
“Go, post a guard!
He must report what he sees.

<a name="21:7">21:7</a> When he sees chariots,
teams of horses,
riders on donkeys,
riders on camels,
he must be alert,
very alert.”

<a name="21:8">21:8</a> Then the guard cries out:
“On the watchtower, O sovereign master,
I stand all day long;
at my post
I am stationed every night.

<a name="21:9">21:9</a> Look what’s coming!
A charioteer,
a team of horses.”
When questioned, he replies,
“Babylon has fallen, fallen!
All the idols of her gods lie shattered on the ground!”

<a name="21:10">21:10</a> O my downtrodden people, crushed like stalks on the threshing floor,
what I have heard
from the Lord who leads armies,
the God of Israel,
I have reported to you.

## Bad News for Seir

<a name="21:11">21:11</a> Here is a message about Dumah:
Someone calls to me from Seir,
“Watchman, what is left of the night?
Watchman, what is left of the night?”

<a name="21:12">21:12</a> The watchman replies,
“Morning is coming, but then night.
If you want to ask, ask;
come again.”

## The Lord Will Judge Arabia

<a name="21:13">21:13</a> Here is a message about Arabia:
In the thicket of Arabia you spend the night,
you Dedanite caravans.

<a name="21:14">21:14</a> Bring out some water for the thirsty.
You who live in the land of Tema,
bring some food for the fugitives.

<a name="21:15">21:15</a> For they flee from the swords — 
from the drawn sword
and from the battle-ready bow
and from the severity of the battle.

<a name="21:16">21:16</a> For this is what the sovereign master has told me: “Within exactly one year all the splendor of Kedar will come to an end. <a name="21:17">21:17</a> Just a handful of archers, the warriors of Kedar, will be left.” Indeed, the Lord God of Israel has spoken.