---
title: 31
parent: Isaiah
other: x
---

## Egypt Will Disappoint

<a name="31:1">31:1</a> Those who go down to Egypt for help are as good as dead,
those who rely on war horses,
and trust in Egypt’s many chariots
and in their many, many horsemen.
But they do not rely on the sovereign king of Israel
and do not seek help from the Lord.

<a name="31:2">31:2</a> Yet he too is wise and he will bring disaster;
he does not retract his decree.
He will attack the wicked nation,
and the nation that helps those who commit sin.

<a name="31:3">31:3</a> The Egyptians are mere humans, not God;
their horses are made of flesh, not spirit.
The Lord will strike with his hand;
the one who helps will stumble
and the one being helped will fall.
Together they will perish.
 
## The Lord Will Defend Zion

<a name="31:4">31:4</a> Indeed, this is what the Lord says to me:
“The Lord will be like a growling lion,
like a young lion growling over its prey.
Though a whole group of shepherds gathers against it,
it is not afraid of their shouts
or intimidated by their yelling.
In this same way the Lord who leads armies will descend
to do battle on Mount Zion and on its hill.

<a name="31:5">31:5</a> Just as birds hover over a nest,
so the Lord who leads armies will protect Jerusalem.
He will protect and deliver it;
as he passes over he will rescue it.

<a name="31:6">31:6</a> You Israelites! Return to the one against whom you have so blatantly rebelled! <a name="31:7">31:7</a> For at that time everyone will get rid of the silver and gold idols your hands sinfully made.

<a name="31:8">31:8</a> Assyria will fall by a sword, but not a man-made one;
a sword not made by men will destroy them.
They will run away from this sword
and their young men will be forced to do hard labor.

<a name="31:9">31:9</a> They will surrender their stronghold because of fear;
their officers will be afraid of the Lord’s battle flag.”
This is what the Lord says — 
the one whose fire is in Zion,
whose fire pot is in Jerusalem.