---
title: 32
parent: Isaiah
other: x
---

## Justice and Wisdom Will Prevail

<a name="32:1">32:1</a> Look, a king will promote fairness;
officials will promote justice.

<a name="32:2">32:2</a> Each of them will be like a shelter from the wind
and a refuge from a rainstorm;
like streams of water in a dry region
and like the shade of a large cliff in a parched land.

<a name="32:3">32:3</a> Eyes will no longer be blind
and ears will be attentive.

<a name="32:4">32:4</a> The mind that acts rashly will possess discernment
and the tongue that stutters will speak with ease and clarity.

<a name="32:5">32:5</a> A fool will no longer be called honorable;
a deceiver will no longer be called principled.

<a name="32:6">32:6</a> For a fool speaks disgraceful things;
his mind plans out sinful deeds.
He commits godless deeds
and says misleading things about the Lord;
he gives the hungry nothing to satisfy their appetite
and gives the thirsty nothing to drink.

<a name="32:7">32:7</a> A deceiver’s methods are evil;
he dreams up evil plans
to ruin the poor with lies,
even when the needy are in the right.

<a name="32:8">32:8</a> An honorable man makes honorable plans;
his honorable character gives him security.

## The Lord Will Give True Security

<a name="32:9">32:9</a> You complacent women,
get up and listen to me!
You carefree daughters,
pay attention to what I say!

<a name="32:10">32:10</a> In a year’s time
you carefree ones will shake with fear,
for the grape harvest will fail,
and the fruit harvest will not arrive.

<a name="32:11">32:11</a> Tremble, you complacent ones!
Shake with fear, you carefree ones!
Strip off your clothes and expose yourselves—
put sackcloth on your waist!

<a name="32:12">32:12</a> Mourn over the field,
over the delightful fields
and the fruitful vine!

<a name="32:13">32:13</a> Mourn over the land of my people,
which is overgrown with thorns and briers,
and over all the once happy houses
in the city filled with revelry.

<a name="32:14">32:14</a> For the fortress is neglected;
the once crowded city is abandoned.
Hill and watchtower
are permanently uninhabited.
Wild donkeys love to go there,
and flocks graze there.

<a name="32:15">32:15</a> This desolation will continue until new life is poured out on us from heaven.
Then the desert will become an orchard
and the orchard will be considered a forest.

<a name="32:16">32:16</a> Justice will settle down in the desert
and fairness will live in the orchard.

<a name="32:17">32:17</a> Fairness will produce peace
and result in lasting security.

<a name="32:18">32:18</a> My people will live in peaceful settlements,
in secure homes,
and in safe, quiet places.

<a name="32:19">32:19</a> Even if the forest is destroyed
and the city is annihilated,

<a name="32:20">32:20</a> you will be happy,
you who plant seed by all the banks of the streams,
you who let your ox and donkey graze.