---
title: 34
parent: Isaiah
other: x
---

## The Lord Will Judge Edom

<a name="34:1">34:1</a> Come near, you nations, and listen!
Pay attention, you people!
The earth and everything it contains must listen,
the world and everything that lives in it.

<a name="34:2">34:2</a> For the Lord is angry at all the nations
and furious with all their armies.
He will annihilate them and slaughter them.

<a name="34:3">34:3</a> Their slain will be unburied,
their corpses will stink;
the hills will soak up their blood.

<a name="34:4">34:4</a> All the stars in the sky will fade away,
the sky will roll up like a scroll;
all its stars will wither,
like a leaf withers and falls from a vine
or a fig withers and falls from a tree.

<a name="34:5">34:5</a> He says, “Indeed, my sword has slaughtered heavenly powers.
Look, it now descends on Edom,
on the people I will annihilate in judgment.”

<a name="34:6">34:6</a> The Lord’s sword is dripping with blood,
it is covered with suet;
it drips with the blood of young rams and goats
and is covered with the suet of rams’ kidneys.
For the Lord is holding a sacrifice in Bozrah,
a bloody slaughter in the land of Edom.

<a name="34:7">34:7</a> Wild oxen will be slaughtered along with them,
as well as strong bulls.
Their land is drenched with blood,
their soil is covered with suet.

<a name="34:8">34:8</a> For the Lord has planned a day of revenge,
a time when he will repay Edom for her hostility toward Zion.

<a name="34:9">34:9</a> Her streams will be turned into pitch
and her soil into brimstone;
her land will become burning pitch.

<a name="34:10">34:10</a> Night and day it will burn;
its smoke will ascend continually.
Generation after generation it will be a wasteland
and no one will ever pass through it again.

<a name="34:11">34:11</a> Owls and wild animals will live there,
all kinds of wild birds will settle in it.
The Lord will stretch out over her
the measuring line of ruin
and the plumb line of destruction.

<a name="34:12">34:12</a> Her nobles will have nothing left to call a kingdom
and all her officials will disappear.

<a name="34:13">34:13</a> Her fortresses will be overgrown with thorns;
thickets and weeds will grow in her fortified cities.
Jackals will settle there;
ostriches will live there.

<a name="34:14">34:14</a> Wild animals and wild dogs will congregate there;
wild goats will bleat to one another.
Yes, nocturnal animals will rest there
and make for themselves a nest.

<a name="34:15">34:15</a> Owls will make nests and lay eggs there;
they will hatch them and protect them.
Yes, hawks will gather there,
each with its mate.

<a name="34:16">34:16</a> Carefully read the scroll of the Lord!
Not one of these creatures will be missing,
none will lack a mate.
For the Lord has issued the decree,
and his personal spirit gathers them.

<a name="34:17">34:17</a> He assigns them their allotment;
he measures out their assigned place.
They will live there permanently;
they will settle in it through successive generations.