---
title: 59
parent: Isaiah
other: x
---

## Injustice Brings Alienation from God

<a name="59:1">59:1</a> Look, the Lord’s hand is not too weak to deliver you;
his ear is not too deaf to hear you.

<a name="59:2">59:2</a> But your sinful acts have alienated you from your God;
your sins have caused him to reject you and not listen to your prayers.

<a name="59:3">59:3</a> For your hands are stained with blood
and your fingers with sin;
your lips speak lies,
your tongue utters malicious words.

<a name="59:4">59:4</a> No one is concerned about justice;
no one sets forth his case truthfully.
They depend on false words and tell lies;
they conceive of oppression
and give birth to sin.

<a name="59:5">59:5</a> They hatch the eggs of a poisonous snake
and spin a spider’s web.
Whoever eats their eggs will die,
a poisonous snake is hatched.

<a name="59:6">59:6</a> Their webs cannot be used for clothing;
they cannot cover themselves with what they make.
Their deeds are sinful;
they commit violent crimes.

<a name="59:7">59:7</a> They are eager to do evil,
quick to shed innocent blood.
Their thoughts are sinful;
they crush and destroy.

<a name="59:8">59:8</a> They are unfamiliar with peace;
their deeds are unjust.
They use deceitful methods,
and whoever deals with them is unfamiliar with peace.

## Israel Confesses its Sin

<a name="59:9">59:9</a> For this reason deliverance is far from us
and salvation does not reach us.
We wait for light, but see only darkness;
we wait for a bright light, but live in deep darkness.

<a name="59:10">59:10</a> We grope along the wall like the blind,
we grope like those who cannot see;
we stumble at noontime as if it were evening.
Though others are strong, we are like dead men.

<a name="59:11">59:11</a> We all growl like bears,
we coo mournfully like doves;
we wait for deliverance, but there is none,
for salvation, but it is far from us.

<a name="59:12">59:12</a> For you are aware of our many rebellious deeds,
and our sins testify against us;
indeed, we are aware of our rebellious deeds;
we know our sins all too well.

<a name="59:13">59:13</a> We have rebelled and tried to deceive the Lord;
we turned back from following our God.
We stir up oppression and rebellion;
we tell lies we concocted in our minds.

<a name="59:14">59:14</a> Justice is driven back;
godliness stands far off.
Indeed, honesty stumbles in the city square
and morality is not even able to enter.

<a name="59:15">59:15</a> Honesty has disappeared;
the one who tries to avoid evil is robbed.
The Lord watches and is upset,
for there is no justice.

## The Lord Intervenes

<a name="59:16">59:16</a> He sees there is no advocate;
he is shocked that no one intervenes.
So he takes matters into his own hands;
his desire for justice drives him on.

<a name="59:17">59:17</a> He wears his desire for justice like armor,
and his desire to deliver is like a helmet on his head.
He puts on the garments of vengeance
and wears zeal like a robe.

<a name="59:18">59:18</a> He repays them for what they have done,
dishing out angry judgment to his adversaries
and punishing his enemies.
He repays the coastlands.

<a name="59:19">59:19</a> In the west, people respect the Lord’s reputation;
in the east they recognize his splendor.
For he comes like a rushing stream
driven on by wind sent from the Lord.

<a name="59:20">59:20</a> “A protector comes to Zion,
to those in Jacob who repent of their rebellious deeds,” says the Lord.

<a name="59:21">59:21</a> “As for me, this is my promise to them,” says the Lord. “My spirit, who is upon you, and my words, which I have placed in your mouth, will not depart from your mouth or from the mouths of your children and descendants from this time forward,” says the Lord.