---
title: 65
parent: Isaiah
other: x
---

## The Lord Will Distinguish Between Sinners and the Godly

<a name="65:1">65:1</a> “I made myself available to those who did not ask for me;
I appeared to those who did not look for me.
I said, ‘Here I am! Here I am!’
to a nation that did not invoke my name.

<a name="65:2">65:2</a> I spread out my hands all day long
to rebellious people,
who lived in a way that is morally unacceptable,
and who did what they desired.

<a name="65:3">65:3</a> These people continually and blatantly offend me
as they sacrifice in their sacred orchards
and burn incense on brick altars.

<a name="65:4">65:4</a> They sit among the tombs
and keep watch all night long.
They eat pork,
and broth from unclean sacrificial meat is in their pans.

<a name="65:5">65:5</a> They say, ‘Keep to yourself!
Don’t get near me, for I am holier than you!’
These people are like smoke in my nostrils,
like a fire that keeps burning all day long.

<a name="65:6">65:6</a> Look, I have decreed:
I will not keep silent, but will pay them back;
I will pay them back exactly what they deserve,

<a name="65:7">65:7</a> for your sins and your ancestors’ sins,” says the Lord.
“Because they burned incense on the mountains
and offended me on the hills,
I will punish them in full measure.”

<a name="65:8">65:8</a> This is what the Lord says:
“When juice is discovered in a cluster of grapes,
someone says, ‘Don’t destroy it, for it contains juice.’
So I will do for the sake of my servants — 
I will not destroy everyone.

<a name="65:9">65:9</a> I will bring forth descendants from Jacob,
and from Judah people to take possession of my mountains.
My chosen ones will take possession of the land;
my servants will live there.

<a name="65:10">65:10</a> Sharon will become a pasture for sheep,
and the Valley of Achor a place where cattle graze;
they will belong to my people, who seek me.

<a name="65:11">65:11</a> But as for you who abandon the Lord
and forget about worshiping at my holy mountain,
who prepare a feast for the god called ‘Fortune,’
and fill up wine jugs for the god called ‘Destiny’ — 

<a name="65:12">65:12</a> I predestine you to die by the sword,
all of you will kneel down at the slaughtering block,
because I called to you, and you did not respond,
I spoke and you did not listen.
You did evil before me;
you chose to do what displeases me.”

<a name="65:13">65:13</a> So this is what the sovereign Lord says:
“Look, my servants will eat, but you will be hungry!
Look, my servants will drink, but you will be thirsty!
Look, my servants will be happy, but you will be humiliated!

<a name="65:14">65:14</a> Look, my servants will shout for joy as happiness fills their hearts!
But you will cry out as sorrow fills your hearts;
you will wail because your spirits will be crushed.

<a name="65:15">65:15</a> Your names will live on in the curse formulas of my chosen ones.
The sovereign Lord will kill you,
but he will give his servants another name.

<a name="65:16">65:16</a> Whoever pronounces a blessing in the earth
will do so in the name of the faithful God;
whoever makes an oath in the earth
will do so in the name of the faithful God.
For past problems will be forgotten;
I will no longer think about them.

<a name="65:17">65:17</a> For look, I am ready to create
new heavens and a new earth!
The former ones will not be remembered;
no one will think about them anymore.

<a name="65:18">65:18</a> But be happy and rejoice forevermore
over what I am about to create!
For look, I am ready to create Jerusalem to be a source of joy,
and her people to be a source of happiness.

<a name="65:19">65:19</a> Jerusalem will bring me joy,
and my people will bring me happiness.
The sound of weeping or cries of sorrow
will never be heard in her again.

<a name="65:20">65:20</a> Never again will one of her infants live just a few days
or an old man die before his time.
Indeed, no one will die before the age of a hundred,
anyone who fails to reach the age of a hundred will be considered cursed.

<a name="65:21">65:21</a> They will build houses and live in them;
they will plant vineyards and eat their fruit.

<a name="65:22">65:22</a> No longer will they build a house only to have another live in it,
or plant a vineyard only to have another eat its fruit,
for my people will live as long as trees,
and my chosen ones will enjoy to the fullest what they have produced.

<a name="65:23">65:23</a> They will not work in vain,
or give birth to children that will experience disaster.
For the Lord will bless their children
and their descendants.

<a name="65:24">65:24</a> Before they even call out, I will respond;
while they are still speaking, I will hear.

<a name="65:25">65:25</a> A wolf and a lamb will graze together;
a lion, like an ox, will eat straw,
and a snake’s food will be dirt.
They will no longer injure or destroy
on my entire royal mountain,” says the Lord.