---
title: 15
parent: Luke
other: x
---

## The Parable of the Lost Sheep and Coin

<a name="15:1">15:1</a> Now all the tax collectors and sinners were coming to hear him. <a name="15:2">15:2</a> But the Pharisees and the experts in the law were complaining, “This man welcomes sinners and eats with them.”

<a name="15:3">15:3</a> So Jesus told them this parable: <a name="15:4">15:4</a> “Which one of you, if he has a hundred sheep and loses one of them, would not leave the ninety-nine in the open pasture and go look for the one that is lost until he finds it? <a name="15:5">15:5</a> Then when he has found it, he places it on his shoulders, rejoicing. <a name="15:6">15:6</a> Returning home, he calls together his friends and neighbors, telling them, ‘Rejoice with me, because I have found my sheep that was lost.’ <a name="15:7">15:7</a> I tell you, in the same way there will be more joy in heaven over one sinner who repents than over ninety-nine righteous people who have no need to repent.

<a name="15:8">15:8</a> “Or what woman, if she has ten silver coins and loses one of them, does not light a lamp, sweep the house, and search thoroughly until she finds it? <a name="15:9">15:9</a> Then when she has found it, she calls together her friends and neighbors, saying, ‘Rejoice with me, for I have found the coin that I had lost.’ <a name="15:10">15:10</a> In the same way, I tell you, there is joy in the presence of God’s angels over one sinner who repents.”

## The Parable of the Compassionate Father

<a name="15:11">15:11</a> Then Jesus said, “A man had two sons. <a name="15:12">15:12</a> The younger of them said to his father, ‘Father, give me the share of the estate that will belong to me.’ So he divided his assets between them. <a name="15:13">15:13</a> After a few days, the younger son gathered together all he had and left on a journey to a distant country, and there he squandered his wealth with a wild lifestyle. <a name="15:14">15:14</a> Then after he had spent everything, a severe famine took place in that country, and he began to be in need. <a name="15:15">15:15</a> So he went and worked for one of the citizens of that country, who sent him to his fields to feed pigs. <a name="15:16">15:16</a> He was longing to eat the carob pods the pigs were eating, but no one gave him anything. <a name="15:17">15:17</a> But when he came to his senses he said, ‘How many of my father’s hired workers have food enough to spare, but here I am dying from hunger! <a name="15:18">15:18</a> I will get up and go to my father and say to him, “Father, I have sinned against heaven and against you. <a name="15:19">15:19</a> I am no longer worthy to be called your son; treat me like one of your hired workers.”’ <a name="15:20">15:20</a> So he got up and went to his father. But while he was still a long way from home his father saw him, and his heart went out to him; he ran and hugged his son and kissed him. <a name="15:21">15:21</a> Then his son said to him, ‘Father, I have sinned against heaven and against you; I am no longer worthy to be called your son.’ <a name="15:22">15:22</a> But the father said to his slaves, ‘Hurry! Bring the best robe, and put it on him! Put a ring on his finger and sandals on his feet! <a name="15:23">15:23</a> Bring the fattened calf and kill it! Let us eat and celebrate, <a name="15:24">15:24</a> because this son of mine was dead, and is alive again — he was lost and is found!’ So they began to celebrate.

<a name="15:25">15:25</a> “Now his older son was in the field. As he came and approached the house, he heard music and dancing. <a name="15:26">15:26</a> So he called one of the slaves and asked what was happening. <a name="15:27">15:27</a> The slave replied, ‘Your brother has returned, and your father has killed the fattened calf because he got his son back safe and sound.’ <a name="15:28">15:28</a> But the older son became angry and refused to go in. His father came out and appealed to him, <a name="15:29">15:29</a> but he answered his father, ‘Look! These many years I have worked like a slave for you, and I never disobeyed your commands. Yet you never gave me even a goat so that I could celebrate with my friends! <a name="15:30">15:30</a> But when this son of yours came back, who has devoured your assets with prostitutes, you killed the fattened calf for him!’ <a name="15:31">15:31</a> Then the father said to him, ‘Son, you are always with me, and everything that belongs to me is yours. <a name="15:32">15:32</a> It was appropriate to celebrate and be glad, for your brother was dead, and is alive; he was lost and is found.’”

