---
title: 14
parent: 2 Chronicles
other: x
---


<a name="14:1">14:1</a> Abijah passed away and was buried in the City of David. His son Asa replaced him as king. During his reign the land had rest for ten years.

## Asa’s Religious and Military Accomplishments

<a name="14:2">14:2</a> Asa did what the Lord his God desired and approved. <a name="14:3">14:3</a> He removed the pagan altars and the high places, smashed the sacred pillars, and cut down the Asherah poles. <a name="14:4">14:4</a> He ordered Judah to seek the Lord God of their ancestors and to observe his law and commands. <a name="14:5">14:5</a> He removed the high places and the incense altars from all the cities of Judah. The kingdom had rest under his rule.

<a name="14:6">14:6</a> He built fortified cities throughout Judah, for the land was at rest and there was no war during those years; the Lord gave him peace. <a name="14:7">14:7</a> He said to the people of Judah: “Let’s build these cities and fortify them with walls, towers, and strong gates. The land remains ours because we have followed the Lord our God and he has made us secure on all sides.” So they built the cities and prospered.

<a name="14:8">14:8</a> Asa had an army of three hundred thousand men from Judah, equipped with large shields and spears. He also had two hundred eighty thousand men from Benjamin who carried small shields and were adept archers; they were all skilled warriors. <a name="14:9">14:9</a> Zerah the Cushite marched against them with an army of a million men and three hundred chariots. He arrived at Mareshah, <a name="14:10">14:10</a> and Asa went out to oppose him. They deployed for battle in the Valley of Zephathah near Mareshah.

<a name="14:11">14:11</a> Asa prayed to the Lord his God: “O Lord, there is no one but you that can help the weak when they are vastly outnumbered. Help us, O Lord our God, for we rely on you and have marched on your behalf against this huge army. O Lord our God, don’t let men prevail against you!” <a name="14:12">14:12</a> The Lord struck down the Cushites before Asa and Judah. The Cushites fled, <a name="14:13">14:13</a> and Asa and his army chased them as far as Gerar. The Cushites were wiped out; they were shattered before the Lord and his army. The men of Judah carried off a huge amount of loot. <a name="14:14">14:14</a> They defeated all the cities surrounding Gerar, for the Lord caused them to panic. The men of Judah looted all the cities, for they contained a huge amount of goods. <a name="14:15">14:15</a> They also attacked the tents of the herdsmen in charge of the livestock. They carried off many sheep and camels and then returned to Jerusalem.