---
title: 01
parent: Ezekiel
other: x
---

## God’s Glory in a Vision

<a name="1:1">1:1</a> In the thirtieth year, on the fifth day of the fourth month, while I was among the exiles at the Kebar River, the heavens opened and I saw visions of God. <a name="1:2">1:2</a> (In the fifth day of the month — it was the fifth year of King Jehoiachin’s exile — <a name="1:3">1:3</a> the word of the Lord came to the priest Ezekiel the son of Buzi, at the Kebar River in the land of the Babylonians. The hand of the Lord came on him there).

<a name="1:4">1:4</a> As I watched, I saw a windstorm coming from the north — an enormous cloud surrounded by bright light. There was also a flashing fire, and in the fire something like a glowing substance. <a name="1:5">1:5</a> In the fire were what looked like four living beings. In their appearance they had human form. <a name="1:6">1:6</a> Each had four faces and four wings, <a name="1:7">1:7</a> their legs were straight, and the soles of their feet were like calves’ feet. They gleamed like polished bronze. <a name="1:8">1:8</a> They had human hands under their wings on their four sides. Each of the four had faces and wings; <a name="1:9">1:9</a> their wings touched each other. They did not turn as they moved, but went straight ahead.

<a name="1:10">1:10</a> Their faces had this appearance: each of the four had the face of a man, with the face of a lion on the right, the face of an ox on the left and also the face of an eagle — <a name="1:11">1:11</a> this is how their faces appeared. Their wings were spread out above them; each had two wings touching the wings of one of the other beings on either side and two wings covering their bodies. <a name="1:12">1:12</a> Each moved straight ahead — wherever the spirit would go, they would go, without turning as they went. <a name="1:13">1:13</a> The appearance of the living beings was like burning coals of fire or like torches. The fire moved back and forth among the living beings. It was bright, and lightning was flashing out of the fire. <a name="1:14">1:14</a> The living beings moved backward and forward as quickly as flashes of lightning.

<a name="1:15">1:15</a> As I looked at the living beings, I saw a wheel touching the ground beside each one of the four. <a name="1:16">1:16</a> The appearance of the wheels and their construction was like jasper, and all four wheels looked alike. Their structure was like a wheel within a wheel. <a name="1:17">1:17</a> When they moved they would go in any of the four directions they faced; they did not turn as they moved. <a name="1:18">1:18</a> Their rims were high and awesome and the rims of all four wheels were full of eyes all around.

<a name="1:19">1:19</a> When the living beings moved, the wheels beside them moved; when the living beings rose up from the ground, the wheels rose up too. <a name="1:20">1:20</a> Wherever the spirit would go, they would go, and the wheels would rise up beside them, because the spirit of the living beings was in the wheels. <a name="1:21">1:21</a> When the living beings moved, the wheels moved, and when they stopped moving, the wheels stopped. When they rose up from the ground, the wheels rose up from the ground; the wheels rose up beside them, because the spirit of the living beings was in the wheels.

<a name="1:22">1:22</a> Over the heads of the living beings was something like a platform, glittering awesomely like ice stretched out over their heads. <a name="1:23">1:23</a> Under the platform their wings were stretched out, each toward the other. Each of the beings also had two wings giving cover — each had two covering its body. <a name="1:24">1:24</a> When they moved, I heard the sound of their wings — it was like the sound of rushing waters, or the voice of the Almighty, or the tumult of an army. When they stopped moving, they lowered their wings.

<a name="1:25">1:25</a> Then there was a voice from above the platform over their heads. When they stopped moving, they lowered their wings. <a name="1:26">1:26</a> Above the platform over their heads was something like a throne made of sapphire. On the throne, high above, was a form that appeared to be a man. <a name="1:27">1:27</a> I saw a glowing substance that looked like fire enclosed all around from his waist up. From his waist down I saw something that looked like fire, and there was a brilliant light around it. <a name="1:28">1:28</a> The appearance of the brilliant light all around him was like a rainbow in the clouds after the rain. This was the appearance of the likeness of the glory of the Lord. When I saw it, I threw myself down with my face to the ground, and I heard someone’s voice speaking.
