---
title: 04
parent: Ezekiel
other: x
---

## Ominous Object Lessons

<a name="4:1">4:1</a> “And you, son of man, take a brick and set it in front of you. Inscribe a city on it — Jerusalem. <a name="4:2">4:2</a> Lay siege to it! Build siege works against it and erect a siege ramp against it! Post soldiers outside it and surround it with battering rams. <a name="4:3">4:3</a> Then take an iron baking plate and set it up as an iron wall between you and the city. Set your face toward it and it will be under siege; you will besiege it. This is a sign for the house of Israel.

<a name="4:4">4:4</a> “Then lie on your left side, and place the iniquity of the house of Israel on it. You will bear their iniquity for the number of days you lie on your side. <a name="4:5">4:5</a> I have determined the number of days you will bear the iniquity of the house of Israel — three hundred ninety days — to correspond to the number of years of their iniquity.

<a name="4:6">4:6</a> “When you have completed these days you will lie down a second time, but on your right side, and you will bear the iniquity of the house of Judah — I have assigned you forty days, one day for each year. <a name="4:7">4:7</a> You will turn your face toward the siege of Jerusalem with your arm bared, and prophesy against it. <a name="4:8">4:8</a> Look, I will tie you up with ropes, so you cannot turn from one side to the other until you complete the days of your siege.

<a name="4:9">4:9</a> “Take wheat, barley, beans, lentils, millet, and spelt, put them in a single container, and make food from them for yourself. You must eat it for the same number of days that you lie on your side — three hundred ninety days. <a name="4:10">4:10</a> The food that you eat must be eight ounces a day by weight; you must eat it at fixed times. <a name="4:11">4:11</a> And you must drink water by measure, a pint and a half; you must drink it at fixed times. <a name="4:12">4:12</a> And you must eat the food like you would a barley cake. You must bake it in front of them over a fire made with dried human dung.” <a name="4:13">4:13</a> And the Lord said, “This is how the people of Israel will eat their unclean food among the nations where I will banish them.”

<a name="4:14">4:14</a> And I said, “Ah, Sovereign Lord, I have never been ritually defiled before. I have never eaten a carcass or an animal torn by wild beasts; from my youth up, unclean meat has never entered my mouth.”

<a name="4:15">4:15</a> So he said to me, “All right then, I will allow you to prepare your bread over cow’s dung instead of human dung.”

<a name="4:16">4:16</a> Then he said to me, “Son of man, I am about to remove the bread supply in Jerusalem. They will anxiously eat the bread weighed out, and they will in terror drink the water measured out, <a name="4:17">4:17</a> because they will lack bread and water. Each one will be terrified, and they will waste away in their iniquity.
