---
title: 05
parent: Ezekiel
other: x
---

<a name="5:1">5:1</a> “As for you, son of man, take a sharp sword and use it as a barber’s razor. Shave off some of the hair from your head and your beard. Then take scales and divide up the hair you cut off. <a name="5:2">5:2</a> Burn a third of it in the fire inside the city when the days of your siege are completed. Take a third and slash it with a sword all around the city, and scatter a third to the wind. I will use a sword against them. <a name="5:3">5:3</a> But take a few strands of hair and tie them in the ends of your garment. <a name="5:4">5:4</a> Again, take more of them and throw them into the middle of the fire, and burn them up. From there a fire will spread to all the house of Israel.

<a name="5:5">5:5</a> “This is what the Sovereign Lord says: This is Jerusalem; I have placed her in the center of the nations with countries all around her. <a name="5:6">5:6</a> But she has rebelled against my laws and my statutes, becoming more wicked than the nations and the countries around her. My people have rejected my laws, and they do not follow my statutes.

<a name="5:7">5:7</a> “Therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord says: Because you are more arrogant than the nations around you, you have not followed my statutes and have not obeyed my laws. You have not even obeyed the laws of the nations around you!

<a name="5:8">5:8</a> “Therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord says: I — even I — am against you, and I will execute judgment within you while the nations watch. <a name="5:9">5:9</a> Because of all your abominable practices, I will do to you what I have never done before and will never do again. <a name="5:10">5:10</a> Therefore fathers will eat their own children within you and children will eat their own fathers. I will execute judgments against you, and I will scatter to the wind any among you who survive.

<a name="5:11">5:11</a> “Therefore, as surely as I live, says the Sovereign Lord, because you defiled my sanctuary with all your detestable idols and with all your abominable practices, I will mow you down. My eye will not pity you, nor will I spare you. <a name="5:12">5:12</a> One third of you will die of plague and be overcome by famine within you. A third of you will fall by the sword outside; and one third I will scatter to the wind. I will chase them with a drawn sword. <a name="5:13">5:13</a> Then my anger will come to an end; I will cause my rage against them to subside. My desire for vengeance will be satisfied. Then they will know that I, the Lord, have spoken in my jealousy when I fully vent my rage against them.

<a name="5:14">5:14</a> “I will make you desolate and an object of scorn among the nations around you, in the sight of everyone who passes by. <a name="5:15">5:15</a> You will be an object of scorn and taunting, a prime example of destruction among the nations around you when I execute judgments against you in anger and raging fury. I, the Lord, have spoken. <a name="5:16">5:16</a> I will shoot against them deadly, destructive arrows of famine, which I will shoot to destroy you. I will bring prolonged famine on you and will remove the bread supply. <a name="5:17">5:17</a> I will send famine and wild beasts against you and they will take your children from you. Plague and bloodshed will overwhelm you, and I will bring a sword against you. I, the Lord, have spoken!”
