---
title: 11
parent: Ezekiel
other: x
---

## The Fall of Jerusalem

<a name="11:1">11:1</a> A wind lifted me up and brought me to the east gate of the Lord’s temple, that faces the east. There, at the entrance of the gate, I saw twenty-five men. Among them I saw Jaazaniah son of Azzur and Pelatiah son of Benaiah, officials of the people. <a name="11:2">11:2</a> The Lord said to me, “Son of man, these are the men who plot evil and give wicked advice in this city. <a name="11:3">11:3</a> They say, ‘The time is not near to build houses; the city is a cooking pot and we are the meat in it.’ <a name="11:4">11:4</a> Therefore, prophesy against them! Prophesy, son of man!”

<a name="11:5">11:5</a> Then the Spirit of the Lord came upon me, and he told me to say, “This is what the Lord says: This is what you are thinking, O house of Israel; I know what goes through your minds. <a name="11:6">11:6</a> You have killed many people in this city; you have filled its streets with corpses.

<a name="11:7">11:7</a> “Therefore, this is what the Sovereign Lord says: The corpses you have dumped in the midst of the city are the meat, and this city is the cooking pot; but I will pull you out of it. <a name="11:8">11:8</a> You fear the sword, so I will bring the sword against you,’ declares the Sovereign Lord. <a name="11:9">11:9</a> ‘I will drag you out of the city and hand you over to foreigners, and I will execute judgments against you. <a name="11:10">11:10</a> You will fall by the sword; I will judge you at the border of Israel. Then you will know that I am the Lord. <a name="11:11">11:11</a> This city will not be a cooking pot for you, and you will not be meat within it; I will judge you at the border of Israel. <a name="11:12">11:12</a> Then you will know that I am the Lord, whose statutes you have not followed and whose laws you have not obeyed. Instead you have behaved according to the laws of the nations around you!”

<a name="11:13">11:13</a> Now, while I was prophesying, Pelatiah son of Benaiah died. Then I threw myself down with my face to the ground and cried out with a loud voice, “Ah, Sovereign Lord! Will you completely wipe out the remnant of Israel?”

<a name="11:14">11:14</a> Then the word of the Lord came to me: <a name="11:15">11:15</a> “Son of man, your brothers, your relatives, your fellow exiles, and the whole house of Israel are those to whom the inhabitants of Jerusalem have said, ‘They have gone far away from the Lord; to us this land has been given as a possession.’

<a name="11:16">11:16</a> “Therefore say: ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: Although I have removed them far away among the nations and have scattered them through foreign lands, I have been a sanctuary for them for a short while among the lands where they have gone.’

<a name="11:17">11:17</a> “Therefore say: ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: I will regather you from the peoples and will assemble you from the lands where you have been scattered, and I will give you back the land of Israel.’

<a name="11:18">11:18</a> “When they return to it, they will remove from it all its detestable things and all its abominations. <a name="11:19">11:19</a> I will give them one heart and I will put a new spirit within them; I will remove the heart of stone from their bodies and I will give them a heart of flesh, <a name="11:20">11:20</a> so that they may obey my statutes and keep my laws and observe them. Then they will be my people, and I will be their God. <a name="11:21">11:21</a> But those whose hearts are devoted to detestable things and abominations, I will repay them for what they have done, says the Sovereign Lord.”

<a name="11:22">11:22</a> Then the cherubim lifted up their wings, with their wheels alongside them, while the glory of the God of Israel hovered above them. <a name="11:23">11:23</a> The glory of the Lord rose up from within the city and stopped over the mountain east of it. <a name="11:24">11:24</a> Then a wind lifted me up and carried me to the exiles in Babylonia, in the vision given to me by the Spirit of God.

Then the vision I had seen went up from me. <a name="11:25">11:25</a> So I told the exiles everything the Lord had shown me.
