---
title: 14
parent: Ezekiel
other: x
---

## Well-Deserved Judgment

<a name="14:1">14:1</a> Then some of the elders of Israel came to me and sat down in front of me. <a name="14:2">14:2</a> The word of the Lord came to me: <a name="14:3">14:3</a> “Son of man, these men have set up their idols in their hearts and placed the stumbling block of their sin right before their faces. Should I really allow them to seek me? <a name="14:4">14:4</a> Therefore speak to them and say to them, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: When any one from the house of Israel sets up his idols in his heart and places the stumbling block of his sin before his face, and then consults a prophet, I the Lord will answer him as his blatant idolatry deserves. <a name="14:5">14:5</a> I will do this in order to capture the hearts of the house of Israel, who have turned away from me on account of all their idols.’

<a name="14:6">14:6</a> “Therefore say to the house of Israel, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: Repent! Abandon your idols; and turn away from your abominable practices. <a name="14:7">14:7</a> For when anyone from the house of Israel, or the foreigner who lives in Israel, separates himself from me and sets up his idols in his heart and places the stumbling block of his sin before his face, and then consults a prophet to seek something from me, I the Lord will answer him. <a name="14:8">14:8</a> I will set my face against that man and will make him an object lesson and a byword, and will cut him off from among my people. Then you will know that I am the Lord.

<a name="14:9">14:9</a> “‘As for the prophet, if he is enticed to speak a prophetic word, I, the Lord, will entice that prophet, and I will stretch out my hand against him and destroy him from among my people Israel. <a name="14:10">14:10</a> They will bear their punishment; the punishment of the one who sought an oracle will be the same as the punishment of the prophet who gave it. <a name="14:11">14:11</a> Then the house of Israel will no longer go astray from me, nor continue to defile themselves by all their sins. They will be my people and I will be their God, declares the Sovereign Lord.’”

<a name="14:12">14:12</a> The word of the Lord came to me: <a name="14:13">14:13</a> “Son of man, suppose a country sins against me by being unfaithful, and I stretch out my hand against it, remove its bread supply, cause it to experience famine, and kill both man and beast. <a name="14:14">14:14</a> Even if these three men, Noah, Daniel, and Job, were in it, they would save only their own lives by their righteousness, declares the Sovereign Lord.

<a name="14:15">14:15</a> “Suppose I were to send wild animals through the land and kill its children, so that it became desolate and no one traveled across it because of the animals. <a name="14:16">14:16</a> As surely as I live, declares the Sovereign Lord, even if these three men were in it, they could not save their own sons or daughters; they would save only their own lives, and the land would become desolate.

<a name="14:17">14:17</a> “Or suppose I were to bring a sword against that land and say, ‘Let a sword pass through the land,’ and I were to kill both man and beast. <a name="14:18">14:18</a> Even though these three men were in it, as surely as I live, declares the Sovereign Lord, they could not save their own sons or daughters, they would save only their own lives.

<a name="14:19">14:19</a> “Or suppose I were to send a plague into that land, and pour out my rage on it with bloodshed, killing both man and beast. <a name="14:20">14:20</a> Even if Noah, Daniel, and Job were in it, as surely as I live, declares the Sovereign Lord, they could not save their own son or daughter; they would save only their own lives by their righteousness.

<a name="14:21">14:21</a> “For this is what the Sovereign Lord says: How much worse will it be when I send my four terrible judgments — sword, famine, wild animals, and plague — against Jerusalem to kill both man and beast! <a name="14:22">14:22</a> Yet some survivors will be left in it, sons and daughters who are brought out. They will come out to you, and when you see their behavior and their deeds, you will be consoled about the catastrophe I have brought on Jerusalem — for everything I brought on it. <a name="14:23">14:23</a> They will console you when you see their behavior and their deeds, because you will know that it was not without reason that I have done what I have done in it, declares the Sovereign Lord.”
