---
title: 19
parent: Ezekiel
other: x
---

## Lament for the Princes of Israel

<a name="19:1">19:1</a> “And you, sing a lament for the princes of Israel, <a name="19:2">19:2</a> and say:

> “‘What a lioness was your mother among the lions!
> She lay down among the lions,
> and reared her cubs.
> <a name="19:3">19:3</a> She raised one of her cubs,
> and he became a young lion;
> he learned to tear prey;
> he devoured men.
> <a name="19:4">19:4</a> The nations heard about him;
> he was trapped in their pit;
> they brought him with hooks to the land of Egypt.
> <a name="19:5">19:5</a> “‘When she saw that she waited in vain, her hope was lost,
> she took another of her cubs and made him a young lion.
> <a name="19:6">19:6</a> He walked about among the lions;
> he became a young lion;
> he learned to tear prey;
> he devoured men.
> <a name="19:7">19:7</a> He broke down their strongholds,
> and devastated their cities;
> the land and everything in it was frightened at the sound of his roaring.
> <a name="19:8">19:8</a> The nations from the surrounding regions attacked him;
> they threw their net over him;
> he was trapped in their pit.
> <a name="19:9">19:9</a> They used hooks to put him in a cage,
> they brought him to the king of Babylon;
> they imprisoned him,
> so that his voice would no longer be heard on the mountains of Israel.
> <a name="19:10">19:10</a> “‘Your mother was like a vine in your vineyard
> transplanted by water;
> it was fruitful and full of branches because it was well-watered.
> <a name="19:11">19:11</a> Its boughs were strong, fit for rulers’ scepters;
> it reached up into the clouds;
> it stood out because of its height and many branches.
> <a name="19:12">19:12</a> But it was plucked up in anger,
> it was thrown down to the ground;
> the east wind dried up its fruit,
> its strong branches broke off and withered,
> a fire consumed them.
> <a name="19:13">19:13</a> Now it is transplanted in the wilderness,
> in a dry and thirsty land.
> <a name="19:14">19:14</a> A fire has gone out from its branch,
> it has consumed its shoot and its fruit.
> No strong branch was left in it, nor a scepter to rule.’
> This is a lamentation, and has become a lamentation.”
