---
title: 24
parent: Ezekiel
other: x
---

## The Boiling Pot

<a name="24:1">24:1</a> The word of the Lord came to me in the ninth year, in the tenth month, on the tenth day of the month: <a name="24:2">24:2</a> “Son of man, write down the name of this day, this very day. The king of Babylon has laid siege to Jerusalem this very day. <a name="24:3">24:3</a> Speak a proverb to the rebellious house and say to them, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says:

> “‘Set on the pot, set it on,
> pour water in it too;
> <a name="24:4">24:4</a> put the pieces of meat in it, every good piece,
> the thigh and the shoulder;
> fill it with choice bones.
> <a name="24:5">24:5</a> Take the choice bone of the flock,
> heap up bones under it;
> also boil its bones in it.
> <a name="24:6">24:6</a> “‘Therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord says:
> Woe to the city of bloodshed,
> the pot whose rust is in it,
> whose rust has not been removed from it!
> Empty it piece by piece,
> do let not a lot fall on it.
> <a name="24:7">24:7</a> For the blood she shed was in it;
> she poured it on a bare rock;
> she did not pour it on the ground to cover it up dust.
> <a name="24:8">24:8</a> To arouse my anger, to take vengeance,
> I have placed the blood she shed on a bare rock so that it cannot be covered up.
> <a name="24:9">24:9</a> “‘Therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord says:
> Woe to the city of bloodshed!
> I will also make the pile high.
> <a name="24:10">24:10</a> Pile up the bones, kindle the fire;
> cook the meat well, mix in the spices,
> let the bones be charred.
> <a name="24:11">24:11</a> Set the empty pot on the coals,
> until it becomes hot and its copper glows,
> until its uncleanness melts within it and its rust is consumed.
> <a name="24:12">24:12</a> It has tried my patience;
> yet its thick rust is not removed from it.
> Subject its rust to the fire!
> <a name="24:13">24:13</a> You mix uncleanness with obscene conduct.
> I tried to cleanse you, but you are not clean.
> You will not be cleansed from your uncleanness
> until I have fully unleashed my anger upon you.

<a name="24:14">24:14</a> “‘I the Lord have spoken; judgment is coming and I will act. I will not relent, or show pity, or be sorry. I will judge you according to your conduct and your deeds, declares the Sovereign Lord.’”

## Ezekiel’s Wife Dies

<a name="24:15">24:15</a> The word of Lord came to me: <a name="24:16">24:16</a> “Son of man, with a single blow I am about to take away from you the one in whom your eyes delight; but you must not mourn or weep or shed tears. <a name="24:17">24:17</a> Groan under your breath; you must not perform mourning rites. Bind on your turban and put your sandals on your feet. Do not cover your lip and do not eat common food.”

<a name="24:18">24:18</a> So I spoke to the people in the morning, and my wife died in the evening. In the morning I did just as I was commanded. <a name="24:19">24:19</a> Then the people said to me, “Will you not tell us what these things you are doing mean for us?”

<a name="24:20">24:20</a> So I said to them: “The word of the Lord came to me: <a name="24:21">24:21</a> Say to the house of Israel, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: I am about to desecrate my sanctuary — the source of your confident pride, the object in which your eyes delight, and your life’s passion. Your very own sons and daughters whom you have left behind will fall by the sword. <a name="24:22">24:22</a> Then you will do as I have done: you will not cover your lip or eat common food. <a name="24:23">24:23</a> Your turbans will be on your heads and your sandals on your feet; you will not mourn or weep, but you will waste away in your iniquities and groan among yourselves. <a name="24:24">24:24</a> Ezekiel will be an object lesson for you; you will do all that he has done. When it happens, then you will know that I am the Sovereign Lord.’

<a name="24:25">24:25</a> “And you, son of man, this is what will happen on the day I take from them their stronghold — their beautiful source of joy, the object in which their eyes delight, and the main concern of their lives, as well as their sons and daughters: <a name="24:26">24:26</a> On that day the one who escapes will come to you to report the news. <a name="24:27">24:27</a> On that day you will be able to speak again; you will talk with the one who escaped and be silent no longer. You will be an object lesson for them, and they will know that I am the Lord.”
