---
title: 35
parent: Ezekiel
other: x
---

## Prophecy Against Mount Seir

<a name="35:1">35:1</a> The word of the Lord came to me: <a name="35:2">35:2</a> “Son of man, turn toward Mount Seir, and prophesy against it. <a name="35:3">35:3</a> Say to it, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says:

> “‘Look, I oppose you, Mount Seir;
> I will stretch out my hand against you
> and make you a desolate ruin.
> <a name="35:4">35:4</a> I will lay waste your cities;
> and you will become desolate.
> Then you will know that I am the Lord!

<a name="35:5">35:5</a> “‘You have shown unrelenting hostility, and handed the people of Israel over to the power of the sword at the time of their calamity, at the time of their final punishment. <a name="35:6">35:6</a> Therefore, as surely as I live, declares the Sovereign Lord, I will subject you to bloodshed, and bloodshed will pursue you; since you did not hate bloodshed, bloodshed will pursue you. <a name="35:7">35:7</a> I will make Mount Seir totally desolate; I will cut off from it the one who passes through and the one who returns. <a name="35:8">35:8</a> I will fill its mountains with its dead; on your hills and in your valleys and in all your streams, those killed by the sword will fall. <a name="35:9">35:9</a> I will make you perpetually desolate, and your cities will not be inhabited. Then you will know that I am the Lord.

<a name="35:10">35:10</a> “‘You said, “These two nations, these two lands will be mine, and we will possess them,” — although the Lord was there — <a name="35:11">35:11</a> therefore, as surely as I live, declares the Sovereign Lord, I will deal with you according to your anger, and according to your envy that you showed because of your hatred of them. I will make myself known among you when I judge you. <a name="35:12">35:12</a> Then you will know that I, the Lord, have heard all the insults you spoke against the mountains of Israel, saying, “They are desolate, they have been given to us for food.” <a name="35:13">35:13</a> You exalted yourselves against me with your speech and hurled many insults against me; I have heard. <a name="35:14">35:14</a> This is what the Sovereign Lord says: While the whole earth rejoices, I will make you desolate. <a name="35:15">35:15</a> As you rejoiced over the inheritance of the house of Israel because it was desolate, so will I deal with you — you will be desolate, Mount Seir, and all of Edom — all of it. Then they will know that I am the Lord.’”
