---
title: 39
parent: Ezekiel
other: x
---

<a name="39:1">39:1</a> “As for you, son of man, prophesy against Gog, and say: ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: Look, I oppose you, O Gog, chief prince of Meshech and Tubal! <a name="39:2">39:2</a> I will turn you around and drag you along; I will lead you up from the remotest parts of the north, and bring you against the mountains of Israel. <a name="39:3">39:3</a> I will knock your bow out of your left hand, and make your arrows fall from your right hand. <a name="39:4">39:4</a> You will fall dead on the mountains of Israel, you and all your troops and the people who are with you. I give you as food to every kind of bird and every wild beast. <a name="39:5">39:5</a> You will fall dead in the open field; for I have spoken, declares the Sovereign Lord. <a name="39:6">39:6</a> I will send fire on Magog and those who live securely in the coastlands; then they will know that I am the Lord.

<a name="39:7">39:7</a> “‘I will make my holy name known in the midst of my people Israel; I will not let my holy name be profaned any more. Then the nations will know that I am the Lord, the sovereign king of Israel. <a name="39:8">39:8</a> Look, it is coming and it will be done, declares the Sovereign Lord. It is the day I have spoken about.

<a name="39:9">39:9</a> “‘Then those who live in the cities of Israel will go out and use the weapons for kindling — the shields, bows and arrows, war clubs and spears — they will burn them for seven years. <a name="39:10">39:10</a> They will not need to take wood from the field or cut down trees from the forests, because they will make fires with the weapons. They will take the loot from those who looted them and seize the plunder of those who plundered them, declares the Sovereign Lord.

<a name="39:11">39:11</a> “‘On that day I will assign Gog a grave in Israel. It will be the valley of those who travel east of the sea; it will block the way of the travelers. There they will bury Gog and all his horde; they will call it the valley of Hamon-Gog. <a name="39:12">39:12</a> For seven months Israel will bury them, in order to cleanse the land. <a name="39:13">39:13</a> All the people of the land will bury them; and it will be a memorial for them on the day I magnify myself, declares the Sovereign Lord. <a name="39:14">39:14</a> They will assign men to pass continually through the land and bury those who remain on the surface of the ground, in order to cleanse it. At the end of seven months they will make their search. <a name="39:15">39:15</a> As they pass through the land, anyone who sees a human bone will place a sign by it, until those who assigned burial duty have buried it in the valley of Hamon-Gog. <a name="39:16">39:16</a> (A city by the name of Hamonah will also be there.) They will cleanse the land.’

<a name="39:17">39:17</a> “As for you, son of man, this is what the Sovereign Lord says: Tell every kind of bird and every wild beast: ‘Assemble and come! Gather from all around to my sacrifice which I am going to offer for you, a great sacrifice on the mountains of Israel! You may eat flesh and drink blood. <a name="39:18">39:18</a> You will eat the flesh of warriors and drink the blood of the princes of the earth — the rams, lambs, goats, and bulls, all of them fattened animals of Bashan. <a name="39:19">39:19</a> You will eat fat until you are full, and drink blood until you are drunk, at my sacrifice which I have prepared for you. <a name="39:20">39:20</a> You will fill up at my table with horses and charioteers, with warriors and all the soldiers,’ declares the Sovereign Lord.

<a name="39:21">39:21</a> “I will display my majesty among the nations. All the nations will witness the judgment I have executed, and the power I have exhibited among them. <a name="39:22">39:22</a> Then the house of Israel will know that I am the Lord their God, from that day forward. <a name="39:23">39:23</a> The nations will know that the house of Israel went into exile due to their sin, for they were unfaithful to me. So I hid my face from them and handed them over to their enemies; all of them died by the sword. <a name="39:24">39:24</a> According to their uncleanness and rebellion I have dealt with them, and I hid my face from them.

<a name="39:25">39:25</a> “Therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord says: Now I will restore the fortunes of Jacob, and I will have mercy on the entire house of Israel. I will be zealous for my holy name. <a name="39:26">39:26</a> They will bear their shame for all their unfaithful acts against me, when they live securely on their land with no one to make them afraid. <a name="39:27">39:27</a> When I have brought them back from the peoples and gathered them from the countries of their enemies, I will magnify myself among them in the sight of many nations. <a name="39:28">39:28</a> Then they will know that I am the Lord their God, because I sent them into exile among the nations, and then gathered them into their own land. I will not leave any of them in exile any longer. <a name="39:29">39:29</a> I will no longer hide my face from them, when I pour out my Spirit on the house of Israel, declares the Sovereign Lord.”
