---
title: 40
parent: Ezekiel
other: x
---

## Vision of the New Temple

<a name="40:1">40:1</a> In the twenty-fifth year of our exile, at the beginning of the year, on the tenth day of the month, in the fourteenth year after the city was struck down, on this very day, the hand of the Lord was on me, and he brought me there. <a name="40:2">40:2</a> In the visions from God he brought me to the land of Israel and placed me on a very high mountain, and on it was a structure like a city to the south. <a name="40:3">40:3</a> When he brought me there, I saw a man whose appearance was like bronze, with a linen cord and a measuring stick in his hand. He was standing in the gateway. <a name="40:4">40:4</a> The man said to me, “Son of man, see with your eyes and hear with your ears, and pay attention everything I show you, for you have been brought here so that I might show it to you. Tell all that you see to the house of Israel.”

<a name="40:5">40:5</a> I saw a wall all around the outside of the temple. In the man’s hand was a measuring stick ten and a half feet long. He measured the thickness of the wall as ten and a half feet, and its height as ten and a half feet. <a name="40:6">40:6</a> Then he went to the gate facing east. He climbed its steps and measured the threshold of the gate as ten and a half feet deep. <a name="40:7">40:7</a> The alcoves were ten and a half feet long and ten and a half feet wide; between the alcoves were eight and three-quarter feet. The threshold of the gate by the porch of the gate facing inward was ten and a half feet. <a name="40:8">40:8</a> Then he measured the porch of the gate facing inward as ten and a half feet. <a name="40:9">40:9</a> He measured the porch of the gate as fourteen feet, and its jambs as three and a half feet; the porch of the gate faced inward. <a name="40:10">40:10</a> There were three alcoves on each side of the east gate; the three had the same measurement, and the jambs on either side had the same measurement. <a name="40:11">40:11</a> He measured the width of the entrance of the gateway as seventeen and a half feet, and the length of the gateway as twenty-two and three-quarter feet. <a name="40:12">40:12</a> There was a barrier in front of the alcoves, one and three-quarter feet on either side; the alcoves were ten and a half feet on either side. <a name="40:13">40:13</a> He measured the gateway from the roof of one alcove to the roof of the other, a width of forty-three and three-quarter feet from one entrance to the opposite one. <a name="40:14">40:14</a> He measured the jambs at one hundred five feet high; the gateway went all around to the jamb of the courtyard. <a name="40:15">40:15</a> From the front of the entrance gate to the porch of the inner gate was eighty-seven and a half feet. <a name="40:16">40:16</a> There were closed windows toward the alcoves and toward their jambs within the gate all around, and likewise for the porches. There were windows all around the inside; and on each jamb were decorative palm trees.

<a name="40:17">40:17</a> Then he brought me to the outer court. I saw chambers there, and a pavement made for the court all around; thirty chambers faced the pavement. <a name="40:18">40:18</a> The pavement was beside the gates, corresponding to the length of the gates; this was the lower pavement. <a name="40:19">40:19</a> Then he measured the width from before the lower gate to the front of the exterior of the inner court, as one hundred seventy-five feet on the east and on the north.

<a name="40:20">40:20</a> He measured the length and width of the gate of the outer court which faces north. <a name="40:21">40:21</a> Its alcoves, three on each side, and its jambs and porches had the same measurement as the first gate; eighty-seven and a half feet long and forty-three and three-quarter feet wide. <a name="40:22">40:22</a> Its windows, its porches, and its decorative palm trees had the same measurement as the gate which faced east. Seven steps led up to it; and its porch was in front of them. <a name="40:23">40:23</a> Opposite the gate on the north and the east was a gate of the inner court; he measured the distance from gate to gate at one hundred seventy-five feet.

<a name="40:24">40:24</a> Then he led me toward the south, and I saw a gate on the south. He measured its jambs and its porches; they had the same dimensions as the others. <a name="40:25">40:25</a> There were windows all around it and its porches, like the windows of the others; eighty-seven and a half feet long and forty-three and three-quarter feet wide. <a name="40:26">40:26</a> There were seven steps going up to it; its porches were in front of them. It had decorative palm trees on its jambs, one on either side. <a name="40:27">40:27</a> The inner court had a gate toward the south; he measured it from gate to gate toward the south as one hundred seventy-five feet.

<a name="40:28">40:28</a> Then he brought me to the inner court by the south gate. He measured the south gate; it had the same dimensions as the others. <a name="40:29">40:29</a> Its alcoves, its jambs, and its porches had the same dimensions as the others; and there were windows all around it and its porches; its length was eighty-seven and a half feet and its width forty-three and three-quarter feet. <a name="40:30">40:30</a> There were porches all around, forty-three and three-quarter feet long and eight and three-quarter feet wide. <a name="40:31">40:31</a> Its porches faced the outer court, and decorative palm trees were on its jambs, and its stairway had eight steps.

<a name="40:32">40:32</a> Then he brought me to the inner court on the east side. He measured the gate; it had the same dimensions as the others. <a name="40:33">40:33</a> Its alcoves, its jambs, and its porches had the same dimensions as the others; and there were windows all around it and its porches; its length was eighty-seven and a half feet and its width forty-three and three-quarter feet. <a name="40:34">40:34</a> Its porches faced the outer court, it had decorative palm trees on its jambs, and its stairway had eight steps.

<a name="40:35">40:35</a> Then he brought me to the north gate, and he measured it; it had the same dimensions as the others —  <a name="40:36">40:36</a> its alcoves, its jambs, and its porches. It had windows all around it; its length was eighty-seven and a half feet and its width forty-three and three-quarter feet. <a name="40:37">40:37</a> Its jambs faced the outer court, and it had decorative palm trees on its jambs, on either side; and its stairway had eight steps.

<a name="40:38">40:38</a> There was a chamber with its door by the jambs of the gates; there they washed the burnt offering. <a name="40:39">40:39</a> In the porch of the gate were two tables on either side on which to slaughter the burnt offering, the sin offering, and the guilt offering. <a name="40:40">40:40</a> On the outside of the porch as one goes up at the entrance of the north gate were two tables; and on the other side of the porch of the gate were two tables. <a name="40:41">40:41</a> Four tables were on each side of the gate, eight tables on which the sacrifices were to be slaughtered. <a name="40:42">40:42</a> There were also four tables of carved stone for the burnt offering, two and two-thirds feet long, two and two-thirds feet wide, and one and three-quarter feet high, on which they placed the instruments used to slaughter the burnt offering and the sacrifice. <a name="40:43">40:43</a> There were hooks three inches long, fastened in the house all around, and on the tables was the flesh of the offering.

<a name="40:44">40:44</a> On the outside of the inner gate were chambers for the singers of the inner court, one at the side of the north gate facing south, and the other at the side of the east gate facing north. <a name="40:45">40:45</a> He said to me, “This chamber which faces south is for the priests who keep charge of the temple, <a name="40:46">40:46</a> and the chamber which faces north is for the priests who keep charge of the altar. These are the sons of Zadok, from the sons of Levi, who may approach the Lord to minister to him.” <a name="40:47">40:47</a> He measured the court as a square one hundred seventy-five feet long and one hundred seventy-five feet wide; the altar was in front of the temple.

<a name="40:48">40:48</a> Then he brought me to the porch of the temple and measured the jambs of the porch as eight and three-quarter feet on either side; and the width of the gate was five and a quarter feet on each side. <a name="40:49">40:49</a> The length of the porch was thirty-five feet and the width nineteen and a quarter feet; steps led up to it, and there were pillars beside the jambs on either side.
