---
title: 10
parent: John
other: x
---

## Jesus as the Good Shepherd

<a name="10:1">10:1</a> “I tell you the solemn truth, the one who does not enter the sheepfold by the door, but climbs in some other way, is a thief and a robber. <a name="10:2">10:2</a> The one who enters by the door is the shepherd of the sheep. <a name="10:3">10:3</a> The doorkeeper opens the door for him, and the sheep hear his voice. He calls his own sheep by name and leads them out. <a name="10:4">10:4</a> When he has brought all his own sheep out, he goes ahead of them, and the sheep follow him because they recognize his voice. <a name="10:5">10:5</a> They will never follow a stranger, but will run away from him, because they do not recognize the stranger’s voice.” <a name="10:6">10:6</a> Jesus told them this parable, but they did not understand what he was saying to them.

<a name="10:7">10:7</a> So Jesus said to them again, “I tell you the solemn truth, I am the door for the sheep. <a name="10:8">10:8</a> All who came before me were thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not listen to them. <a name="10:9">10:9</a> I am the door. If anyone enters through me, he will be saved, and will come in and go out, and find pasture. <a name="10:10">10:10</a> The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy; I have come so that they may have life, and may have it abundantly.

<a name="10:11">10:11</a> “I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep. <a name="10:12">10:12</a> The hired hand, who is not a shepherd and does not own sheep, sees the wolf coming and abandons the sheep and runs away. So the wolf attacks the sheep and scatters them. <a name="10:13">10:13</a> Because he is a hired hand and is not concerned about the sheep, he runs away.

<a name="10:14">10:14</a> “I am the good shepherd. I know my own and my own know me — <a name="10:15">10:15</a> just as the Father knows me and I know the Father — and I lay down my life for the sheep. <a name="10:16">10:16</a> I have other sheep that do not come from this sheepfold. I must bring them too, and they will listen to my voice, so that there will be one flock and one shepherd. <a name="10:17">10:17</a> This is why the Father loves me — because I lay down my life, so that I may take it back again. <a name="10:18">10:18</a> No one takes it away from me, but I lay it down of my own free will. I have the authority to lay it down, and I have the authority to take it back again. This commandment I received from my Father.”

<a name="10:19">10:19</a> Another sharp division took place among the Jewish people because of these words. <a name="10:20">10:20</a> Many of them were saying, “He is possessed by a demon and has lost his mind! Why do you listen to him?” <a name="10:21">10:21</a> Others said, “These are not the words of someone possessed by a demon. A demon cannot cause the blind to see, can it?”

## Jesus at the Feast of Dedication

<a name="10:22">10:22</a> Then came the feast of the Dedication in Jerusalem. <a name="10:23">10:23</a> It was winter, and Jesus was walking in the temple area in Solomon’s Portico. <a name="10:24">10:24</a> The Jewish leaders surrounded him and asked, “How long will you keep us in suspense? If you are the Christ, tell us plainly.” <a name="10:25">10:25</a> Jesus replied, “I told you and you do not believe. The deeds I do in my Father’s name testify about me. <a name="10:26">10:26</a> But you refuse to believe because you are not my sheep. <a name="10:27">10:27</a> My sheep listen to my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. <a name="10:28">10:28</a> I give them eternal life, and they will never perish; no one will snatch them from my hand. <a name="10:29">10:29</a> My Father, who has given them to me, is greater than all, and no one can snatch them from my Father’s hand. <a name="10:30">10:30</a> The Father and I are one.”

<a name="10:31">10:31</a> The Jewish leaders picked up rocks again to stone him to death. <a name="10:32">10:32</a> Jesus said to them, “I have shown you many good deeds from the Father. For which one of them are you going to stone me?” <a name="10:33">10:33</a> The Jewish leaders replied, “We are not going to stone you for a good deed but for blasphemy, because you, a man, are claiming to be God.”

<a name="10:34">10:34</a> Jesus answered, “Is it not written in your law, ‘I said, you are gods’? <a name="10:35">10:35</a> If those people to whom the word of God came were called ‘gods’ (and the scripture cannot be broken), <a name="10:36">10:36</a> do you say about the one whom the Father set apart and sent into the world, ‘You are blaspheming,’ because I said, ‘I am the Son of God’? <a name="10:37">10:37</a> If I do not perform the deeds of my Father, do not believe me. <a name="10:38">10:38</a> But if I do them, even if you do not believe me, believe the deeds, so that you may come to know and understand that I am in the Father and the Father is in me.” <a name="10:39">10:39</a> Then they attempted again to seize him, but he escaped their clutches.

<a name="10:40">10:40</a> Jesus went back across the Jordan River again to the place where John had been baptizing at an earlier time, and he stayed there. <a name="10:41">10:41</a> Many came to him and began to say, “John performed no miraculous sign, but everything John said about this man was true!” <a name="10:42">10:42</a> And many believed in Jesus there.
