---
title: 07
parent: Romans
other: x
---

## The Believer’s Relationship to the Law

<a name="7:1">7:1</a> Or do you not know, brothers and sisters (for I am speaking to those who know the law), that the law is lord over a person as long as he lives? <a name="7:2">7:2</a> For a married woman is bound by law to her husband as long as he lives, but if her husband dies, she is released from the law of the marriage. <a name="7:3">7:3</a> So then, if she is joined to another man while her husband is alive, she will be called an adulteress. But if her husband dies, she is free from that law, and if she is joined to another man, she is not an adulteress. <a name="7:4">7:4</a> So, my brothers and sisters, you also died to the law through the body of Christ, so that you could be joined to another, to the one who was raised from the dead, to bear fruit to God. <a name="7:5">7:5</a> For when we were in the flesh, the sinful desires, aroused by the law, were active in the members of our body to bear fruit for death. <a name="7:6">7:6</a> But now we have been released from the law, because we have died to what controlled us, so that we may serve in the new life of the Spirit and not under the old written code.

<a name="7:7">7:7</a> What shall we say then? Is the law sin? Absolutely not! Certainly, I would not have known sin except through the law. For indeed I would not have known what it means to desire something belonging to someone else if the law had not said, “Do not covet.” <a name="7:8">7:8</a> But sin, seizing the opportunity through the commandment, produced in me all kinds of wrong desires. For apart from the law, sin is dead. <a name="7:9">7:9</a> And I was once alive apart from the law, but with the coming of the commandment sin became alive <a name="7:10">7:10</a> and I died. So I found that the very commandment that was intended to bring life brought death! <a name="7:11">7:11</a> For sin, seizing the opportunity through the commandment, deceived me and through it I died. <a name="7:12">7:12</a> So then, the law is holy, and the commandment is holy, righteous, and good.

<a name="7:13">7:13</a> Did that which is good, then, become death to me? Absolutely not! But sin, so that it would be shown to be sin, produced death in me through what is good, so that through the commandment sin would become utterly sinful. <a name="7:14">7:14</a> For we know that the law is spiritual — but I am unspiritual, sold into slavery to sin. <a name="7:15">7:15</a> For I don’t understand what I am doing. For I do not do what I want — instead, I do what I hate. <a name="7:16">7:16</a> But if I do what I don’t want, I agree that the law is good. <a name="7:17">7:17</a> But now it is no longer me doing it, but sin that lives in me. <a name="7:18">7:18</a> For I know that nothing good lives in me, that is, in my flesh. For I want to do the good, but I cannot do it. <a name="7:19">7:19</a> For I do not do the good I want, but I do the very evil I do not want! <a name="7:20">7:20</a> Now if I do what I do not want, it is no longer me doing it but sin that lives in me.

<a name="7:21">7:21</a> So, I find the law that when I want to do good, evil is present with me. <a name="7:22">7:22</a> For I delight in the law of God in my inner being. <a name="7:23">7:23</a> But I see a different law in my members waging war against the law of my mind and making me captive to the law of sin that is in my members. <a name="7:24">7:24</a> Wretched man that I am! Who will rescue me from this body of death? <a name="7:25">7:25</a> Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord! So then, I myself serve the law of God with my mind, but with my flesh I serve the law of sin.
