---
title: 11
parent: Romans
other: x
---

## Israel’s Rejection not Complete nor Final

<a name="11:1">11:1</a> So I ask, God has not rejected his people, has he? Absolutely not! For I too am an Israelite, a descendant of Abraham, from the tribe of Benjamin. <a name="11:2">11:2</a> God has not rejected his people whom he foreknew! Do you not know what the scripture says about Elijah, how he pleads with God against Israel? <a name="11:3">11:3</a> “Lord, they have killed your prophets, they have demolished your altars; I alone am left and they are seeking my life!” <a name="11:4">11:4</a> But what was the divine response to him? “I have kept for myself seven thousand people who have not bent the knee to Baal.”

<a name="11:5">11:5</a> So in the same way at the present time there is a remnant chosen by grace. <a name="11:6">11:6</a> And if it is by grace, it is no longer by works, otherwise grace would no longer be grace. <a name="11:7">11:7</a> What then? Israel failed to obtain what it was diligently seeking, but the elect obtained it. The rest were hardened, <a name="11:8">11:8</a> as it is written,

> > “God gave them a spirit of stupor,
> eyes that would not see and ears that would not hear,
> to this very day.”
> <a name="11:9">11:9</a> And David says,
> “Let their table become a snare and trap,
> a stumbling block and a retribution for them;
> <a name="11:10">11:10</a> let their eyes be darkened so that they may not see,
> and make their backs bend continually.”

<a name="11:11">11:11</a> I ask then, they did not stumble into an irrevocable fall, did they? Absolutely not! But by their transgression salvation has come to the Gentiles, to make Israel jealous. <a name="11:12">11:12</a> Now if their transgression means riches for the world and their defeat means riches for the Gentiles, how much more will their full restoration bring?

<a name="11:13">11:13</a> Now I am speaking to you Gentiles. Seeing that I am an apostle to the Gentiles, I magnify my ministry, <a name="11:14">11:14</a> if somehow I could provoke my people to jealousy and save some of them. <a name="11:15">11:15</a> For if their rejection is the reconciliation of the world, what will their acceptance be but life from the dead? <a name="11:16">11:16</a> If the first portion of the dough offered is holy, then the whole batch is holy, and if the root is holy, so too are the branches.

<a name="11:17">11:17</a> Now if some of the branches were broken off, and you, a wild olive shoot, were grafted in among them and participated in the richness of the olive root, <a name="11:18">11:18</a> do not boast over the branches. But if you boast, remember that you do not support the root, but the root supports you. <a name="11:19">11:19</a> Then you will say, “The branches were broken off so that I could be grafted in.” <a name="11:20">11:20</a> Granted! They were broken off because of their unbelief, but you stand by faith. Do not be arrogant, but fear! <a name="11:21">11:21</a> For if God did not spare the natural branches, perhaps he will not spare you. <a name="11:22">11:22</a> Notice therefore the kindness and harshness of God—harshness toward those who have fallen, but God’s kindness toward you, provided you continue in his kindness; otherwise you also will be cut off. <a name="11:23">11:23</a> And even they—if they do not continue in their unbelief—will be grafted in, for God is able to graft them in again. <a name="11:24">11:24</a> For if you were cut off from what is by nature a wild olive tree, and grafted, contrary to nature, into a cultivated olive tree, how much more will these natural branches be grafted back into their own olive tree?

<a name="11:25">11:25</a> For I do not want you to be ignorant of this mystery, brothers and sisters, so that you may not be conceited: A partial hardening has happened to Israel until the full number of the Gentiles has come in. <a name="11:26">11:26</a> And so all Israel will be saved, as it is written:

> “The Deliverer will come out of Zion;
> he will remove ungodliness from Jacob.
> <a name="11:27">11:27</a> And this is my covenant with them,
> when I take away their sins.”

<a name="11:28">11:28</a> In regard to the gospel they are enemies for your sake, but in regard to election they are dearly loved for the sake of the fathers. <a name="11:29">11:29</a> For the gifts and the call of God are irrevocable. <a name="11:30">11:30</a> Just as you were formerly disobedient to God, but have now received mercy due to their disobedience, <a name="11:31">11:31</a> so they too have now been disobedient in order that, by the mercy shown to you, they too may now receive mercy. <a name="11:32">11:32</a> For God has consigned all people to disobedience so that he may show mercy to them all.

<a name="11:33">11:33</a> Oh, the depth of the riches and wisdom and knowledge of God! How unsearchable are his judgments and how fathomless his ways!
> <a name="11:34">11:34</a> For who has known the mind of the Lord,
> or who has been his counselor?
> <a name="11:35">11:35</a> Or who has first given to God,
> that God needs to repay him?
> <a name="11:36">11:36</a> For from him and through him and to him are all things. To him be glory forever! Amen.
