---
title: 24
parent: Leviticus
other: x
---


## Regulations for the Lampstand and Table of Bread

<a name="24:1">24:1</a> The Lord spoke to Moses: <a name="24:2">24:2</a> “Command the Israelites to bring to you pure oil of beaten olives for the light, to make a lamp burn continually. <a name="24:3">24:3</a> Outside the veil-canopy of the congregation in the Meeting Tent Aaron must arrange it from evening until morning before The Lord continually. This is a perpetual statute throughout your generations. <a name="24:4">24:4</a> On the ceremonially pure lampstand he must arrange the lamps before The Lord continually.

<a name="24:5">24:5</a> “You must take choice wheat flour and bake twelve loaves; there must be two tenths of an ephah of flour in each loaf, <a name="24:6">24:6</a> and you must set them in two rows, six in a row, on the ceremonially pure table before The Lord. <a name="24:7">24:7</a> You must put pure frankincense on each row, and it will become a memorial portion for the bread, a gift to The Lord. <a name="24:8">24:8</a> Each Sabbath day Aaron must arrange it before The Lord continually; this is from the Israelites as a perpetual covenant. <a name="24:9">24:9</a> It will belong to Aaron and his sons, and they must eat it in a holy place because it is most holy to him, a perpetual allotted portion from the gifts of The Lord.”

## A Case of Blaspheming the Name

<a name="24:10">24:10</a> Now an Israelite woman’s son whose father was an Egyptian went out among the Israelites, and the Israelite woman’s son and an Israelite man had a fight in the camp. <a name="24:11">24:11</a> The Israelite woman’s son misused the Name and cursed, so they brought him to Moses. Now the name of his mother was Shelomith daughter of Dibri, of the tribe of Dan. <a name="24:12">24:12</a> So they placed him in custody until they were able to make a clear legal decision for themselves based on words from the mouth of The Lord.

<a name="24:13">24:13</a> Then The Lord spoke to Moses: <a name="24:14">24:14</a> “Bring the one who cursed outside the camp, and all who heard him are to lay their hands on his head, and the whole congregation is to stone him. <a name="24:15">24:15</a> Moreover, you are to tell the Israelites, ‘If any man curses his God he will bear responsibility for his sin, <a name="24:16">24:16</a> and one who misuses the name of The Lord must surely be put to death. The whole congregation must surely stone him, whether he is a foreigner or a native citizen; when he misuses the Name he must be put to death.

<a name="24:17">24:17</a> “‘If a man beats any person to death, he must be put to death. <a name="24:18">24:18</a> One who beats an animal to death must make restitution for it, life for life. <a name="24:19">24:19</a> If a man inflicts an injury on his fellow citizen, just as he has done it must be done to him — <a name="24:20">24:20</a> fracture for fracture, eye for eye, tooth for tooth — just as he inflicts an injury on a person that same injury must be inflicted on him. <a name="24:21">24:21</a> One who beats an animal to death must make restitution for it, but one who beats a person to death must be put to death. <a name="24:22">24:22</a> There will be one regulation for you, whether a foreigner or a native citizen, for I am The Lord your God.’”

<a name="24:23">24:23</a> Then Moses spoke to the Israelites and they brought the one who cursed outside the camp and stoned him with stones. So the Israelites did just as The Lord had commanded Moses.