---
title: 15
parent: Mark
other: x
---

## Jesus Brought Before Pilate

<a name="15:1">15:1</a> Early in the morning, after forming a plan, the chief priests with the elders and the experts in the law and the whole Sanhedrin tied Jesus up, led him away, and handed him over to Pilate. <a name="15:2">15:2</a> So Pilate asked him, “Are you the king of the Jews?” He replied, “You say so.” <a name="15:3">15:3</a> Then the chief priests began to accuse him repeatedly. <a name="15:4">15:4</a> So Pilate asked him again, “Have you nothing to say? See how many charges they are bringing against you!” <a name="15:5">15:5</a> But Jesus made no further reply, so that Pilate was amazed.

## Jesus and Barabbas

<a name="15:6">15:6</a> During the feast it was customary to release one prisoner to the people, whomever they requested. <a name="15:7">15:7</a> A man named Barabbas was imprisoned with rebels who had committed murder during an insurrection. <a name="15:8">15:8</a> Then the crowd came up and began to ask Pilate to release a prisoner for them, as was his custom. <a name="15:9">15:9</a> So Pilate asked them, “Do you want me to release the king of the Jews for you?” <a name="15:10">15:10</a> (For he knew that the chief priests had handed him over because of envy.) <a name="15:11">15:11</a> But the chief priests stirred up the crowd to have him release Barabbas instead. <a name="15:12">15:12</a> So Pilate spoke to them again, “Then what do you want me to do with the one you call king of the Jews?” <a name="15:13">15:13</a> They shouted back, “Crucify him!” <a name="15:14">15:14</a> Pilate asked them, “Why? What has he done wrong?” But they shouted more insistently, “Crucify him!” <a name="15:15">15:15</a> Because he wanted to satisfy the crowd, Pilate released Barabbas for them. Then, after he had Jesus flogged, he handed him over to be crucified.

## Jesus is Mocked

<a name="15:16">15:16</a> So the soldiers led him into the palace (that is, the governor’s residence) and called together the whole cohort. <a name="15:17">15:17</a> They put a purple cloak on him and after braiding a crown of thorns, they put it on him. <a name="15:18">15:18</a> They began to salute him: “Hail, king of the Jews!” <a name="15:19">15:19</a> Again and again they struck him on the head with a staff and spit on him. Then they knelt down and paid homage to him. <a name="15:20">15:20</a> When they had finished mocking him, they stripped him of the purple cloak and put his own clothes back on him. Then they led him away to crucify him.

## The Crucifixion

<a name="15:21">15:21</a> The soldiers forced a passer-by to carry his cross, Simon of Cyrene, who was coming in from the country (he was the father of Alexander and Rufus). <a name="15:22">15:22</a> They brought Jesus to a place called Golgotha (which is translated, “Place of the Skull”). <a name="15:23">15:23</a> They offered him wine mixed with myrrh, but he did not take it. <a name="15:24">15:24</a> Then they crucified him and divided his clothes, throwing dice for them, to decide what each would take. <a name="15:25">15:25</a> It was nine o’clock in the morning when they crucified him. <a name="15:26">15:26</a> The inscription of the charge against him read, “The king of the Jews.” <a name="15:27">15:27</a> And they crucified two outlaws with him, one on his right and one on his left. <a name="15:29">15:29</a> Those who passed by defamed him, shaking their heads and saying, “Aha! You who can destroy the temple and rebuild it in three days, <a name="15:30">15:30</a> save yourself and come down from the cross!” <a name="15:31">15:31</a> In the same way even the chief priests — together with the experts in the law — were mocking him among themselves: “He saved others, but he cannot save himself! <a name="15:32">15:32</a> Let the Christ, the king of Israel, come down from the cross now, that we may see and believe!” Those who were crucified with him also spoke abusively to him.

## Jesus’ Death

<a name="15:33">15:33</a> Now when it was noon, darkness came over the whole land until three in the afternoon. <a name="15:34">15:34</a> Around three o’clock Jesus cried out with a loud voice, “Eloi, Eloi, lema sabachthani?” which means, “My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?” <a name="15:35">15:35</a> When some of the bystanders heard it they said, “Listen, he is calling for Elijah!” <a name="15:36">15:36</a> Then someone ran, filled a sponge with sour wine, put it on a stick, and gave it to him to drink, saying, “Leave him alone! Let’s see if Elijah will come to take him down!” <a name="15:37">15:37</a> But Jesus cried out with a loud voice and breathed his last. <a name="15:38">15:38</a> And the temple curtain was torn in two, from top to bottom. <a name="15:39">15:39</a> Now when the centurion, who stood in front of him, saw how he died, he said, “Truly this man was God’s Son!” <a name="15:40">15:40</a> There were also women, watching from a distance. Among them were Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James the younger and of Joses, and Salome. <a name="15:41">15:41</a> When he was in Galilee, they had followed him and given him support. Many other women who had come up with him to Jerusalem were there too.

## Jesus’ Burial

<a name="15:42">15:42</a> Now when evening had already come, since it was the day of preparation (that is, the day before the Sabbath), <a name="15:43">15:43</a> Joseph of Arimathea, a highly regarded member of the council, who was himself looking forward to the kingdom of God, went boldly to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus. <a name="15:44">15:44</a> Pilate was surprised that he was already dead. He called the centurion and asked him if he had been dead for some time. <a name="15:45">15:45</a> When Pilate was informed by the centurion, he gave the body to Joseph. <a name="15:46">15:46</a> After Joseph bought a linen cloth and took down the body, he wrapped it in the linen and placed it in a tomb cut out of the rock. Then he rolled a stone across the entrance of the tomb. <a name="15:47">15:47</a> Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of Joses saw where the body was placed.
