---
title: 01
parent: Habakkuk
other: x
---

## Habakkuk Complains to the Lord

<a name="1:1">1:1</a> The following is the message which God revealed to Habakkuk the prophet:

<a name="1:2">1:2</a> How long, Lord, must I cry for help?
But you do not listen!
I call out to you, “Violence!”
But you do not intervene!

<a name="1:3">1:3</a> Why do you force me to experience injustice?
Why do you put up with wrongdoing?
Destruction and violence confront me;
conflict is present and one must endure strife.

<a name="1:4">1:4</a> For this reason the law lacks power,
and justice is never carried out.
Indeed, the wicked intimidate the innocent.
For this reason justice is perverted.

## The Lord Reveals Some Startling News

<a name="1:5">1:5</a> “Look at the nations and pay attention!
You will be shocked and amazed!
For I will do something in your lifetime
that you will not believe even though you are forewarned.

<a name="1:6">1:6</a> Look, I am about to empower the Babylonians,
that ruthless and greedy nation.
They sweep across the surface of the earth,
seizing dwelling places that do not belong to them.

<a name="1:7">1:7</a> They are frightening and terrifying;
they decide for themselves what is right.

<a name="1:8">1:8</a> Their horses are faster than leopards
and more alert than wolves in the desert.
Their horses gallop,
their horses come a great distance;
like a vulture they swoop down quickly to devour their prey.

<a name="1:9">1:9</a> All of them intend to do violence;
every face is determined.
They take prisoners as easily as one scoops up sand.

<a name="1:10">1:10</a> They mock kings
and laugh at rulers.
They laugh at every fortified city;
they build siege ramps and capture them.

<a name="1:11">1:11</a> They sweep by like the wind and pass on.
But the one who considers himself a god will be held guilty.”

## Habakkuk Voices Some Concerns

<a name="1:12">1:12</a> Lord, you have been active from ancient times;
my sovereign God, you are immortal.
Lord, you have made them your instrument of judgment.
Protector, you have appointed them as your instrument of punishment.

<a name="1:13">1:13</a> You are too just to tolerate evil;
you are unable to condone wrongdoing.
So why do you put up with such treacherous people?
Why do you say nothing when the wicked devour those who are relatively innocent?

<a name="1:14">1:14</a> You made people like fish in the sea,
like animals in the sea that have no ruler.

<a name="1:15">1:15</a> The Babylonian tyrant pulls them all up with a fishhook;
he hauls them in with his throw net.
When he catches them in his dragnet,
he is very happy.

<a name="1:16">1:16</a> Because of his success he offers sacrifices to his throw net
and burns incense to his dragnet;
for because of them he has plenty of food,
and more than enough to eat.

<a name="1:17">1:17</a> Will he then continue to fill and empty his throw net?
Will he always destroy nations and spare none?