---
title: 07
parent: {{Numbers}}
other: x
---


## The Leader’s Offerings

<a name="7:1">7:1</a> When Moses had completed setting up the tabernacle, he anointed it and consecrated it and all its furnishings, and the altar and all its utensils; so he anointed them and consecrated them. <a name="7:2">7:2</a> Then the leaders of Israel, the heads of their clans, made an offering. They were the leaders of the tribes; they were the ones who had been supervising the numbering. <a name="7:3">7:3</a> They brought their offering before The Lord, six covered carts and twelve oxen — one cart for every two of the leaders, and an ox for each one; and they presented them in front of the tabernacle.

## The Distribution of the Gifts

<a name="7:4">7:4</a> Then The Lord spoke to Moses: <a name="7:5">7:5</a> “Receive these from them, that they may be used in doing the work of the tent of meeting; and you must give them to the Levites, to every man as his service required.”

<a name="7:6">7:6</a> So Moses accepted the carts and the oxen and gave them to the Levites. <a name="7:7">7:7</a> He gave two carts and four oxen to the Gershonites, as their service required; <a name="7:8">7:8</a> and he gave four carts and eight oxen to the Merarites, as their service required, under the authority of Ithamar son of Aaron the priest. <a name="7:9">7:9</a> But to the Kohathites he gave none, because the service of the holy things, which they carried on their shoulders, was their responsibility.

## The Time of Presentation

<a name="7:10">7:10</a> The leaders offered gifts for the dedication of the altar when it was anointed. And the leaders offered their offering before the altar. <a name="7:11">7:11</a> For The Lord said to Moses, “They must offer their offering, one leader for each day, for the dedication of the altar.”

## The Tribal Offerings

<a name="7:12">7:12</a> The one who offered his offering on the first day was Nahshon son of Amminadab, from the tribe of Judah. <a name="7:13">7:13</a> His offering was one silver platter weighing one hundred thirty shekels, and one silver sprinkling bowl weighing seventy shekels, both according to the sanctuary shekel, each of them full of fine flour mixed with olive oil as a grain offering; <a name="7:14">7:14</a> one gold pan weighing ten shekels, full of incense; <a name="7:15">7:15</a> one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year, for a burnt offering; <a name="7:16">7:16</a> one male goat for a purification offering; <a name="7:17">7:17</a> and for the sacrifice of peace offerings: two bulls, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs in their first year. This was the offering of Nahshon son of Amminadab.

<a name="7:18">7:18</a> On the second day Nethanel son of Zuar, leader of Issachar, presented an offering. <a name="7:19">7:19</a> He offered for his offering one silver platter weighing one hundred thirty shekels and one silver sprinkling bowl weighing seventy shekels, both according to the sanctuary shekel, each of them full of fine flour mixed with olive oil as a grain offering; <a name="7:20">7:20</a> one gold pan weighing ten shekels, full of incense; <a name="7:21">7:21</a> one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year, for a burnt offering; <a name="7:22">7:22</a> one male goat for a purification offering; <a name="7:23">7:23</a> and for the sacrifice of peace offerings: two bulls, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs in their first year. This was the offering of Nethanel son of Zuar.

<a name="7:24">7:24</a> On the third day Eliab son of Helon, leader of the Zebulunites, presented an offering. <a name="7:25">7:25</a> His offering was one silver platter weighing one hundred thirty shekels and one silver sprinkling bowl weighing seventy shekels, both according to the sanctuary shekel, each of them full of fine flour mixed with olive oil as a grain offering; <a name="7:26">7:26</a> one gold pan weighing ten shekels, full of incense; <a name="7:27">7:27</a> one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year, for a burnt offering; <a name="7:28">7:28</a> one male goat for a purification offering; <a name="7:29">7:29</a> and for the sacrifice of peace offerings: two bulls, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs in their first year. This was the offering of Eliab son of Helon.

<a name="7:30">7:30</a> On the fourth day Elizur son of Shedeur, leader of the Reubenites, presented an offering. <a name="7:31">7:31</a> His offering was one silver platter weighing one hundred thirty shekels and one silver sprinkling bowl weighing seventy shekels, both according to the sanctuary shekel, each of them full of fine flour mixed with olive oil as a grain offering; <a name="7:32">7:32</a> one gold pan weighing ten shekels, full of incense; <a name="7:33">7:33</a> one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year, for a burnt offering; <a name="7:34">7:34</a> one male goat for a purification offering; <a name="7:35">7:35</a> and for the sacrifice of peace offerings: two bulls, five rams, five male goats, and five lambs in their first year. This was the offering of Elizur son of Shedeur.

<a name="7:36">7:36</a> On the fifth day Shelumiel son of Zurishaddai, leader of the Simeonites, presented an offering. <a name="7:37">7:37</a> His offering was one silver platter weighing one hundred thirty shekels and one silver sprinkling bowl weighing seventy shekels, both according to the sanctuary shekel, each of them full of fine flour mixed with olive oil as a grain offering; <a name="7:38">7:38</a> one gold pan weighing ten shekels; <a name="7:39">7:39</a> one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year, for a burnt offering; <a name="7:40">7:40</a> one male goat for a purification offering; <a name="7:41">7:41</a> and for the sacrifice of peace offerings: two bulls, five rams, five male goats, and five lambs in their first year. This was the offering of Sheloumiel son of Zurishaddai.

<a name="7:42">7:42</a> On the sixth day Eliasaph son of Deuel, leader of the Gadites, presented an offering. <a name="7:43">7:43</a> His offering was one silver platter weighing one hundred thirty shekels and one silver sprinkling bowl weighing seventy shekels, both according to the sanctuary shekel, each of them full of fine flour mixed with olive oil as a grain offering; <a name="7:44">7:44</a> one gold pan weighing ten shekels; <a name="7:45">7:45</a> one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year, for a burnt offering; <a name="7:46">7:46</a> one male goat for a purification offering; <a name="7:47">7:47</a> and for the sacrifice of peace offerings: two bulls, five rams, five male goats, and five lambs in their first year. This was the offering of Eliasaph son of Deuel.

<a name="7:48">7:48</a> On the seventh day Elishama son of Ammihud, leader of the Ephraimites, presented an offering. <a name="7:49">7:49</a> His offering was one silver platter weighing one hundred thirty shekels and one silver sprinkling bowl weighing seventy shekels, both according to the sanctuary shekel, each of them full of fine flour mixed with olive oil as a grain offering; <a name="7:50">7:50</a> one gold pan weighing ten shekels, full of incense; <a name="7:51">7:51</a> one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year, for a burnt offering; <a name="7:52">7:52</a> one male goat for a purification offering; <a name="7:53">7:53</a> and for the sacrifice of peace offerings: two bulls, five rams, five male goats, and five lambs in their first year. This was the offering of Elishama son of Ammihud.

<a name="7:54">7:54</a> On the eighth day Gamaliel son of Pedahzur, leader of the Manassehites, presented an offering. <a name="7:55">7:55</a> His offering was one silver platter weighing one hundred thirty shekels and one silver sprinkling bowl weighing seventy shekels, both according to the sanctuary shekel, each of them full of fine flour mixed with olive oil as a grain offering; <a name="7:56">7:56</a> one gold pan weighing ten shekels, full of incense; <a name="7:57">7:57</a> one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year, for a burnt offering; <a name="7:58">7:58</a> one male goat for a purification offering; <a name="7:59">7:59</a> and for the sacrifice of peace offerings: two bulls, five rams, five male goats, and five lambs in their first year. This was the offering of Gamaliel son of Pedahzur.

<a name="7:60">7:60</a> On the ninth day Abidan son of Gideoni, leader of the Benjaminites, presented an offering. <a name="7:61">7:61</a> His offering was one silver platter weighing one hundred thirty shekels and one silver sprinkling bowl weighing seventy shekels, both according to the sanctuary shekel, each of them full of fine flour mixed with olive oil as a grain offering; <a name="7:62">7:62</a> one gold pan weighing ten shekels, full of incense; <a name="7:63">7:63</a> one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year, for a burnt offering; <a name="7:64">7:64</a> one male goat for a purification offering; <a name="7:65">7:65</a> and for the sacrifice of peace offerings: two bulls, five rams, five male goats, and five lambs in their first year. This was the offering of Abidan son of Gideoni.

<a name="7:66">7:66</a> On the tenth day Ahiezer son of Amishaddai, leader of the Danites, presented an offering. <a name="7:67">7:67</a> His offering was one silver platter weighing one hundred thirty shekels and one silver sprinkling bowl weighing seventy shekels, both according to the sanctuary shekel, each of them full of fine flour mixed with olive oil as a grain offering; <a name="7:68">7:68</a> one gold pan weighing ten shekels, full of incense; <a name="7:69">7:69</a> one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year, for a burnt offering; <a name="7:70">7:70</a> one male goat for a purification offering; <a name="7:71">7:71</a> and for the sacrifice of peace offerings: two bulls, five rams, five male goats, and five lambs in their first year. This was the offering of Ahiezer son of Amishaddai.

<a name="7:72">7:72</a> On the eleventh day Pagiel son of Ocran, leader of the Asherites, presented an offering. <a name="7:73">7:73</a> His offering was one silver platter weighing one hundred thirty shekels and one silver sprinkling bowl weighing seventy shekels, both according to the sanctuary shekel, each of them full of fine flour mixed with olive oil as a grain offering; <a name="7:74">7:74</a> one gold pan weighing ten shekels, full of incense; <a name="7:75">7:75</a> one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year, for a burnt offering; <a name="7:76">7:76</a> one male goat for a purification offering; <a name="7:77">7:77</a> and for the sacrifice of peace offerings: two bulls, five rams, five male goats, and five lambs in their first year. This was the offering of Pagiel son of Ocran.

<a name="7:78">7:78</a> On the twelfth day Ahira son of Enan, leader of the Naphtalites, presented an offering. <a name="7:79">7:79</a> His offering was one silver platter weighing one hundred thirty shekels and one silver sprinkling bowl weighing seventy shekels, both according to the sanctuary shekel, each of them full of fine flour mixed with olive oil as a grain offering; <a name="7:80">7:80</a> one gold pan weighing ten shekels; <a name="7:81">7:81</a> one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year, for a burnt offering; <a name="7:82">7:82</a> one male goat for a purification offering; <a name="7:83">7:83</a> and for the sacrifice of peace offerings: two bulls, five rams, five male goats, and five lambs in their first year. This was the offering of Ahira son of Enan.

## Summary

<a name="7:84">7:84</a> This was the dedication for the altar from the leaders of Israel, when it was anointed: twelve silver platters, twelve silver sprinkling bowls, and twelve gold pans. <a name="7:85">7:85</a> Each silver platter weighed one hundred thirty shekels, and each silver sprinkling bowl weighed seventy shekels. All the silver of the vessels weighed twenty-four hundred shekels, according to the sanctuary shekel. <a name="7:86">7:86</a> The twelve gold pans full of incense weighed ten shekels each, according to the sanctuary shekel; all the gold of the pans weighed one hundred twenty shekels. <a name="7:87">7:87</a> All the animals for the burnt offering were twelve young bulls, twelve rams, twelve male lambs in their first year, with their grain offering, and twelve male goats for a purification offering. <a name="7:88">7:88</a> All the animals for the sacrifice for the peace offering were twenty-four young bulls, sixty rams, sixty male goats, and sixty lambs in their first year. This was the dedication for the altar after it was anointed.

<a name="7:89">7:89</a> Now when Moses went into the tent of meeting to speak with The Lord, he heard the voice speaking to him from above the cover that was on the ark of the testimony, from between the two cherubim. Thus he spoke to him.

