---
title: 28
parent: {{Numbers}}
other: x
---


## Daily Offerings

<a name="28:1">28:1</a> The Lord spoke to Moses: <a name="28:2">28:2</a> “Command the Israelites: ‘With regard to my offering, be sure to offer my food made for my offering made by fire, as a pleasing aroma to me in its appointed time.’ <a name="28:3">28:3</a> You will say to them, ‘This is the offering made by fire which you must offer to The Lord: two unblemished lambs one year old each day for a continual burnt offering. <a name="28:4">28:4</a> The first lamb you must offer in the morning, and the second lamb you must offer in the late afternoon, <a name="28:5">28:5</a> with one-tenth of an ephah of finely ground flour as a grain offering mixed with one quarter of a hin of pressed olive oil. <a name="28:6">28:6</a> It is a continual burnt offering that was instituted on Mount Sinai as a pleasing aroma, an offering made by fire to The Lord.

<a name="28:7">28:7</a> “‘And its drink offering must be one quarter of a hin for each lamb. You must pour out the strong drink as a drink offering to The Lord in the holy place. <a name="28:8">28:8</a> And the second lamb you must offer in the late afternoon; just as you offered the grain offering and drink offering in the morning, you must offer it as an offering made by fire, as a pleasing aroma to The Lord.

## Weekly Offerings

<a name="28:9">28:9</a> “‘On the Sabbath day, you must offer two unblemished lambs a year old, and two-tenths of an ephah of finely ground flour as a grain offering, mixed with olive oil, with its drink offering. <a name="28:10">28:10</a> This is the burnt offering for every Sabbath, besides the continual burnt offering and its drink offering.

## Monthly Offerings

<a name="28:11">28:11</a> “‘On the first day of each month you must offer as a burnt offering to The Lord two young bulls, one ram, and seven unblemished lambs a year old, <a name="28:12">28:12</a> with three-tenths of an ephah of finely ground flour mixed with olive oil as a grain offering for each bull, and two-tenths of an ephah of finely ground flour mixed with olive oil as a grain offering for the one ram, <a name="28:13">28:13</a> and one-tenth of an ephah of finely ground flour mixed with olive oil as a grain offering for each lamb, as a burnt offering of a pleasing aroma, an offering made by fire to The Lord. <a name="28:14">28:14</a> For their drink offerings, include half a hin of wine with each bull, and one-third of a hin for the ram, and one-fourth of a hin for each lamb. This is the burnt offering for each month throughout the months of the year. <a name="28:15">28:15</a> And one male goat must be offered to The Lord as a purification offering, in addition to the continual burnt offering and its drink offering.

## Passover and Unleavened Bread

<a name="28:16">28:16</a> “‘On the fourteenth day of the first month is The Lord’s Passover. <a name="28:17">28:17</a> And on the fifteenth day of this month is the festival. For seven days unleavened bread must be eaten. <a name="28:18">28:18</a> And on the first day there is to be a holy convocation; you must do no ordinary work on it.

<a name="28:19">28:19</a> “‘But you must offer to The Lord an offering made by fire, a burnt offering of two young bulls, one ram, and seven lambs one year old; they must all be unblemished. <a name="28:20">28:20</a> And their grain offering is to be of finely ground flour mixed with olive oil. For each bull you must offer three-tenths of an ephah, and two-tenths for the ram. <a name="28:21">28:21</a> For each of the seven lambs you are to offer one-tenth of an ephah, <a name="28:22">28:22</a> as well as one goat for a purification offering, to make atonement for you. <a name="28:23">28:23</a> You must offer these in addition to the burnt offering in the morning which is for a continual burnt offering. <a name="28:24">28:24</a> In this manner you must offer daily throughout the seven days the food of the sacrifice made by fire as a sweet aroma to The Lord. It is to be offered in addition to the continual burnt offering and its drink offering. <a name="28:25">28:25</a> On the seventh day you are to have a holy convocation, you must do no regular work.

## Firstfruits

<a name="28:26">28:26</a> “‘Also, on the day of the first fruits, when you bring a new grain offering to The Lord during your Feast of Weeks, you are to have a holy convocation. You must do no ordinary work. <a name="28:27">28:27</a> But you must offer as the burnt offering, as a sweet aroma to The Lord, two young bulls, one ram, seven lambs one year old, <a name="28:28">28:28</a> with their grain offering of finely ground flour mixed with olive oil: three-tenths of an ephah for each bull, two-tenths for the one ram, <a name="28:29">28:29</a> with one-tenth for each of the seven lambs, <a name="28:30">28:30</a> as well as one male goat to make an atonement for you. <a name="28:31">28:31</a> You are to offer them with their drink offerings in addition to the continual burnt offering and its grain offering — they must be unblemished.

