---
title: 10
parent: Job
other: x
---


## An Appeal for Revelation 

> <a name="10:1">10:1</a> “I am weary of my life;
> I will give free course to my complaint;
> I will speak in the bitterness of my soul.
> <a name="10:2">10:2</a> I will say to God, ‘Do not condemn me;
> tell me why you are contending with me.’
> <a name="10:3">10:3</a> Is it good for you to oppress,
> to despise the work of your hands,
> while you smile
> on the schemes of the wicked?

## Motivations of God

> <a name="10:4">10:4</a> “Do you have eyes of flesh,
> or do you see as a human sees?
> <a name="10:5">10:5</a> Are your days like the days of a human,
> or your years like the years of a human,
> <a name="10:6">10:6</a> that you must search out my iniquity,
> and inquire about my sin,
> <a name="10:7">10:7</a> although you know that I am not guilty,
> and that there is no one who can deliver
> out of your hand?

## Contradictions in God’s Dealings

> <a name="10:8">10:8</a> “Your hands have shaped me and made me,
> but now you destroy me completely.
> <a name="10:9">10:9</a> Remember that you have made me as with the clay;
> will you return me to dust?
> <a name="10:10">10:10</a> Did you not pour me out like milk,
> and curdle me like cheese?
> <a name="10:11">10:11</a> You clothed me with skin and flesh
> and knit me together with bones and sinews.
> <a name="10:12">10:12</a> You gave me life and favor,
> and your intervention watched over my spirit.
> <a name="10:13">10:13</a> “But these things you have concealed in your heart;
> I know that this is with you:
> <a name="10:14">10:14</a> If I sinned, then you would watch me
> and you would not acquit me of my iniquity.
> <a name="10:15">10:15</a> If I am guilty, woe to me,
> and if I am innocent, I cannot lift my head;
> I am full of shame,
> and satiated with my affliction.
> <a name="10:16">10:16</a> If I lift myself up,
> you hunt me as a fierce lion,
> and again you display your power against me.
> <a name="10:17">10:17</a> You bring new witnesses against me,
> and increase your anger against me;
> relief troops come against me.

## An Appeal for Relief

> <a name="10:18">10:18</a> “Why then did you bring me out from the womb?
> I should have died
> and no eye would have seen me!
> <a name="10:19">10:19</a> I should have been as though I had never existed;
> I should have been carried
> from the womb to the grave!
> <a name="10:20">10:20</a> Are not my days few?
> Cease, then, and leave me alone,
> that I may find a little comfort,
> <a name="10:21">10:21</a> before I depart and cannot return,
> even to the land of darkness
> and the shadow of death,
> <a name="10:22">10:22</a> to the land of darkness,
> like the deepest darkness,
> and the shadow of death and disorder,
> where even the light is like darkness.”