---
title: 12
parent: Job
other: x
---


## Job’s Reply to Zophar 

<a name="12:1">12:1</a> Then Job answered:

> <a name="12:2">12:2</a> “Doubtless, you are the people,
> and wisdom will die with you.
> <a name="12:3">12:3</a> I also have understanding as well as you;
> I am not inferior to you.
> Who does not know such things as these?
> <a name="12:4">12:4</a> I am a laughingstock to my friend,
> I, who called on God and whom he answered, 
> — a righteous and blameless man
> is a laughingstock!
> <a name="12:5">12:5</a> For calamity, there is derision
> (according to the ideas of the fortunate) — 
> a fate for those whose feet slip!
> <a name="12:6">12:6</a> But the tents of robbers are peaceful,
> and those who provoke God are confident — 
> who carry their god in their hands.

## Knowledge of God’s Wisdom

> <a name="12:7">12:7</a> “But now, ask the animals and they will teach you,
> or the birds of the air and they will tell you.
> <a name="12:8">12:8</a> Or speak to the earth and it will teach you,
> or let the fish of the sea declare to you.
> <a name="12:9">12:9</a> Which of all these does not know
> that the hand of the Lord has done this,
> <a name="12:10">12:10</a> in whose hand is the life of every creature
> and the breath of all the human race.
> <a name="12:11">12:11</a> Does not the ear test words,
> as the tongue tastes food?
> <a name="12:12">12:12</a> Is not wisdom found among the aged?
> Does not long life bring understanding?
> <a name="12:13">12:13</a> “With God are wisdom and power;
> counsel and understanding are his.
> <a name="12:14">12:14</a> If he tears down, it cannot be rebuilt;
> if he shuts a person in, it cannot be opened.
> <a name="12:15">12:15</a> If he holds back the waters, then they dry up;
> if he releases them, they destroy the land.
> <a name="12:16">12:16</a> With him are strength and prudence;
> both the one who goes astray
> and the one who misleads are his.
> <a name="12:17">12:17</a> He leads counselors away stripped
> and makes fools of judges.
> <a name="12:18">12:18</a> He loosens the bonds of kings
> and binds a loincloth around their waist.
> <a name="12:19">12:19</a> He leads priests away stripped
> and overthrows the potentates.
> <a name="12:20">12:20</a> He deprives the trusted advisers of speech
> and takes away the discernment of elders.
> <a name="12:21">12:21</a> He pours contempt on noblemen
> and disarms the mighty.
> <a name="12:22">12:22</a> He reveals the deep things of darkness,
> and brings deep shadows into the light.
> <a name="12:23">12:23</a> He makes nations great, and destroys them;
> he extends the boundaries of nations
> and disperses them.
> <a name="12:24">12:24</a> He deprives the leaders of the earth
> of their understanding;
> he makes them wander
> in a trackless desert waste.
> <a name="12:25">12:25</a> They grope about in darkness without light;
> he makes them stagger like drunkards.