---
title: 18
parent: Job
other: x
---


## Bildad’s Second Speech 

<a name="18:1">18:1</a> Then Bildad the Shuhite answered:

> <a name="18:2">18:2</a> “How long until you make an end of words?
> You must consider, and then we can talk.
> <a name="18:3">18:3</a> Why should we be regarded as beasts,
> and considered stupid in your sight?
> <a name="18:4">18:4</a> You who tear yourself to pieces in your anger,
> will the earth be abandoned for your sake?
> Or will a rock be moved from its place?
> <a name="18:5">18:5</a> “Yes, the lamp of the wicked is extinguished;
> his flame of fire does not shine.
> <a name="18:6">18:6</a> The light in his tent grows dark;
> his lamp above him is extinguished.
> <a name="18:7">18:7</a> His vigorous steps are restricted,
> and his own counsel throws him down.
> <a name="18:8">18:8</a> For he has been thrown into a net by his feet
> and he wanders into a mesh.
> <a name="18:9">18:9</a> A trap seizes him by the heel;
> a snare grips him.
> <a name="18:10">18:10</a> A rope is hidden for him on the ground
> and a trap for him lies on the path.
> <a name="18:11">18:11</a> Terrors frighten him on all sides
> and dog his every step.
> <a name="18:12">18:12</a> Calamity is hungry for him,
> and misfortune is ready at his side.
> <a name="18:13">18:13</a> It eats away parts of his skin;
> the most terrible death devours his limbs.
> <a name="18:14">18:14</a> He is dragged from the security of his tent,
> and marched off to the king of terrors.
> <a name="18:15">18:15</a> Fire resides in his tent;
> over his residence burning sulfur is scattered.
> <a name="18:16">18:16</a> Below his roots dry up,
> and his branches wither above.
> <a name="18:17">18:17</a> His memory perishes from the earth,
> he has no name in the land.
> <a name="18:18">18:18</a> He is driven from light into darkness
> and is banished from the world.
> <a name="18:19">18:19</a> He has neither children nor descendants among his people,
> no survivor in those places he once stayed.
> <a name="18:20">18:20</a> People of the west are appalled at his fate;
> people of the east are seized with horror, saying,
> <a name="18:21">18:21</a> ‘Surely such is the residence of an evil man;
> and this is the place of one who has not known God.’”