---
title: 19
parent: Job
other: x
---


## Job’s Reply to Bildad 

<a name="19:1">19:1</a> Then Job answered:

> <a name="19:2">19:2</a> “How long will you torment me
> and crush me with your words?
> <a name="19:3">19:3</a> These ten times you have been reproaching me;
> you are not ashamed to attack me!
> <a name="19:4">19:4</a> But even if it were true that I have erred,
> my error remains solely my concern!
> <a name="19:5">19:5</a> If indeed you would exalt yourselves above me
> and plead my disgrace against me,
> <a name="19:6">19:6</a> know then that God has wronged me
> and encircled me with his net.

## Job’s Abandonment and Affliction

> <a name="19:7">19:7</a> “If I cry out, ‘Violence!’
> I receive no answer;
> I cry for help,
> but there is no justice.
> <a name="19:8">19:8</a> He has blocked my way so I cannot pass,
> and has set darkness over my paths.
> <a name="19:9">19:9</a> He has stripped me of my honor
> and has taken the crown off my head.
> <a name="19:10">19:10</a> He tears me down on every side until I perish;
> he uproots my hope like one uproots a tree.
> <a name="19:11">19:11</a> Thus his anger burns against me,
> and he considers me among his enemies.
> <a name="19:12">19:12</a> His troops advance together;
> they throw up a siege ramp against me,
> and they camp around my tent.

## Job’s Forsaken State

> <a name="19:13">19:13</a> “He has put my relatives far from me;
> my acquaintances only turn away from me.
> <a name="19:14">19:14</a> My kinsmen have failed me;
> my friends have forgotten me.
> <a name="19:15">19:15</a> My guests and my servant girls
> consider me a stranger;
> I am a foreigner in their eyes.
> <a name="19:16">19:16</a> I summon my servant, but he does not respond,
> even though I implore him with my own mouth.
> <a name="19:17">19:17</a> My breath is repulsive to my wife;
> I am loathsome to my brothers.
> <a name="19:18">19:18</a> Even youngsters have scorned me;
> when I get up, they scoff at me.
> <a name="19:19">19:19</a> All my closest friends detest me;
> and those whom I love have turned against me.
> <a name="19:20">19:20</a> My bones stick to my skin and my flesh;
> I have escaped alive with only the skin of my teeth.
> <a name="19:21">19:21</a> Have pity on me, my friends, have pity on me,
> for the hand of God has struck me.
> <a name="19:22">19:22</a> Why do you pursue me like God does?
> Will you never be satiated with my flesh?
> Job’s Assurance of Vindication
> <a name="19:23">19:23</a> “O that my words were written down,
> O that they were written on a scroll,
> <a name="19:24">19:24</a> that with an iron chisel and with lead
> they were engraved in a rock forever!
> <a name="19:25">19:25</a> As for me, I know that my Redeemer lives,
> and that as the last
> he will stand upon the earth.
> <a name="19:26">19:26</a> And after my skin has been destroyed,
> yet in my flesh I will see God,
> <a name="19:27">19:27</a> whom I will see for myself,
> and whom my own eyes will behold,
> and not another.
> My heart grows faint within me.
> <a name="19:28">19:28</a> If you say, ‘How we will pursue him,
> since the root of the trouble is found in him!’
> <a name="19:29">19:29</a> Fear the sword yourselves,
> for wrath brings the punishment by the sword,
> so that you may know
> that there is judgment.”