---
title: 21
parent: Job
other: x
---


## Job’s Reply to Zophar 

<a name="21:1">21:1</a> Then Job answered:

> <a name="21:2">21:2</a> “Listen carefully to my words;
> let this be the consolation you offer me.
> <a name="21:3">21:3</a> Bear with me and I will speak,
> and after I have spoken you may mock.
> <a name="21:4">21:4</a> Is my complaint against a man?
> If so, why should I not be impatient?
> <a name="21:5">21:5</a> Look at me and be appalled;
> put your hands over your mouths.
> <a name="21:6">21:6</a> For, when I think about this, I am terrified
> and my body feels a shudder.

## The Wicked Prosper

> <a name="21:7">21:7</a> “Why do the wicked go on living,
> grow old, even increase in power?
> <a name="21:8">21:8</a> Their children are firmly established
> in their presence,
> their offspring before their eyes.
> <a name="21:9">21:9</a> Their houses are safe and without fear;
> and no rod of punishment from God is upon them.
> <a name="21:10">21:10</a> Their bulls breed without fail;
> their cows calve and do not miscarry.
> <a name="21:11">21:11</a> They allow their children to run like a flock;
> their little ones dance about.
> <a name="21:12">21:12</a> They sing to the accompaniment of tambourine and harp,
> and make merry to the sound of the flute.
> <a name="21:13">21:13</a> They live out their years in prosperity
> and go down to the grave in peace.
> <a name="21:14">21:14</a> So they say to God, ‘Turn away from us!
> We do not want to know your ways.
> <a name="21:15">21:15</a> Who is the Almighty, that we should serve him?
> What would we gain
> if we were to pray to him?’
> <a name="21:16">21:16</a> But their prosperity is not their own doing.
> The counsel of the wicked is far from me!

## How Often Do the Wicked Suffer?

> <a name="21:17">21:17</a> “How often is the lamp of the wicked extinguished?
> How often does their misfortune come upon them?
> How often does God apportion pain to them in his anger?
> <a name="21:18">21:18</a> How often are they like straw before the wind,
> and like chaff swept away by a whirlwind?
> <a name="21:19">21:19</a> You may say, ‘God stores up a man’s punishment for his children!’
> Instead let him repay the man himself
> so that he may know it!
> <a name="21:20">21:20</a> Let his own eyes see his destruction;
> let him drink of the anger of the Almighty.
> <a name="21:21">21:21</a> For what is his interest in his home
> after his death,
> when the number of his months
> has been broken off?
> <a name="21:22">21:22</a> Can anyone teach God knowledge,
> since he judges those that are on high?

## Death Levels Everything

> <a name="21:23">21:23</a> “One man dies in his full vigor,
> completely secure and prosperous,
> <a name="21:24">21:24</a> his body well nourished,
> and the marrow of his bones moist.
> <a name="21:25">21:25</a> And another man dies in bitterness of soul,
> never having tasted anything good.
> <a name="21:26">21:26</a> Together they lie down in the dust,
> and worms cover over them both.

## Futile Words, Deceptive Answers

> <a name="21:27">21:27</a> “Yes, I know what you are thinking,
> the schemes by which you would wrong me.
> <a name="21:28">21:28</a> For you say,
> ‘Where now is the nobleman’s house,
> and where are the tents in which the wicked lived?’
> <a name="21:29">21:29</a> Have you never questioned those who travel the roads?
> Do you not recognize their accounts —
> <a name="21:30">21:30</a> that the evil man is spared
> from the day of his misfortune,
> that he is delivered
> from the day of God’s wrath?
> <a name="21:31">21:31</a> No one denounces his conduct to his face;
> no one repays him for what he has done.
> <a name="21:32">21:32</a> And when he is carried to the tombs,
> and watch is kept over the funeral mound,
> <a name="21:33">21:33</a> The clods of the torrent valley are sweet to him;
> behind him everybody follows in procession,
> and before him goes a countless throng.
> <a name="21:34">21:34</a> So how can you console me with your futile words?
> Nothing is left of your answers but deception!”