---
title: 22
parent: Job
other: x
---


## Eliphaz’s Third Speech 

<a name="22:1">22:1</a> Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered:

> <a name="22:2">22:2</a> “Is it to God that a strong man is of benefit?
> Is it to him that even a wise man is profitable?
> <a name="22:3">22:3</a> Is it of any special benefit to the Almighty
> that you should be righteous,
> or is it any gain to him
> that you make your ways blameless?
> <a name="22:4">22:4</a> Is it because of your piety that he rebukes you
> and goes to judgment with you?
> <a name="22:5">22:5</a> Is not your wickedness great
> and is there no end to your iniquity?
> <a name="22:6">22:6</a> “For you took pledges from your brothers
> for no reason,
> and you stripped the clothing from the naked.
> <a name="22:7">22:7</a> You gave the weary no water to drink
> and from the hungry you withheld food.
> <a name="22:8">22:8</a> Although you were a powerful man, owning land,
> an honored man living on it,
> <a name="22:9">22:9</a> you sent widows away empty-handed,
> and the arms of the orphans are crushed.
> <a name="22:10">22:10</a> That is why snares surround you,
> and why sudden fear terrifies you,
> <a name="22:11">22:11</a> why it is so dark you cannot see,
> and why a flood of water covers you.
> <a name="22:12">22:12</a> “Is not God on high in heaven?
> And see the lofty stars, how high they are!
> <a name="22:13">22:13</a> But you have said, ‘What does God know?
> Does he judge through such deep darkness?
> <a name="22:14">22:14</a> Thick clouds are a veil for him, so he does not see us,
> as he goes back and forth
> in the vault of heaven.’
> <a name="22:15">22:15</a> Will you keep to the old path
> that evil men have walked — 
> <a name="22:16">22:16</a> men who were carried off before their time,
> when the flood was poured out
> on their foundations?
> <a name="22:17">22:17</a> They were saying to God, ‘Turn away from us,’
> and ‘What can the Almighty do to us?’
> <a name="22:18">22:18</a> But it was he who filled their houses
> with good things — 
> yet the counsel of the wicked
> was far from me.
> <a name="22:19">22:19</a> The righteous see their destruction and rejoice;
> the innocent mock them scornfully, saying,
> <a name="22:20">22:20</a> ‘Surely our enemies are destroyed,
> and fire consumes their wealth.’
> <a name="22:21">22:21</a> “Reconcile yourself with God,
> and be at peace with him;
> in this way your prosperity will be good.
> <a name="22:22">22:22</a> Accept instruction from his mouth
> and store up his words in your heart.
> <a name="22:23">22:23</a> If you return to the Almighty, you will be built up;
> if you remove wicked behavior far from your tent,
> <a name="22:24">22:24</a> and throw your gold in the dust — 
> your gold of Ophir
> among the rocks in the ravines — 
> <a name="22:25">22:25</a> then the Almighty himself will be your gold,
> and the choicest silver for you.
> <a name="22:26">22:26</a> Surely then you will delight yourself in the Almighty,
> and will lift up your face toward God.
> <a name="22:27">22:27</a> You will pray to him and he will hear you,
> and you will fulfill your vows to him.
> <a name="22:28">22:28</a> Whatever you decide on a matter,
> it will be established for you,
> and light will shine on your ways.
> <a name="22:29">22:29</a> When people are brought low and you say
> ‘Lift them up!’
> then he will save the downcast;
> <a name="22:30">22:30</a> he will deliver even someone who is not innocent,
> who will escape through the cleanness of your hands.”