---
title: 27
parent: Job
other: x
---


## A Protest of Innocence 

<a name="27:1">27:1</a> And Job took up his discourse again:

> <a name="27:2">27:2</a> “As surely as God lives, who has denied me justice,
> the Almighty, who has made my life bitter — 
> <a name="27:3">27:3</a> for while my spirit is still in me,
> and the breath from God is in my nostrils,
> <a name="27:4">27:4</a> my lips will not speak wickedness,
> and my tongue will whisper no deceit.
> <a name="27:5">27:5</a> I will never declare that you are in the right;
> until I die, I will not set aside my integrity!
> <a name="27:6">27:6</a> I will maintain my righteousness
> and never let it go;
> my conscience will not reproach me
> for as long as I live.

## The Condition of the Wicked

> <a name="27:7">27:7</a> “May my enemy be like the wicked,
> my adversary like the unrighteous.
> <a name="27:8">27:8</a> For what hope does the godless have when he is cut off,
> when God takes away his life?
> <a name="27:9">27:9</a> Does God listen to his cry
> when distress overtakes him?
> <a name="27:10">27:10</a> Will he find delight in the Almighty?
> Will he call out to God at all times?
> <a name="27:11">27:11</a> I will teach you about the power of God;
> What is on Shaddai’s mind I will not conceal.
> <a name="27:12">27:12</a> If you yourselves have all seen this,
> Why in the world do you continue this meaningless talk?
> <a name="27:13">27:13</a> This is the portion of the wicked man
> allotted by God,
> the inheritance that evildoers receive
> from the Almighty.
> <a name="27:14">27:14</a> If his children increase — it is for the sword!
> His offspring never have enough to eat.
> <a name="27:15">27:15</a> Those who survive him are buried by the plague,
> and their widows do not mourn for them.
> <a name="27:16">27:16</a> If he piles up silver like dust
> and stores up clothing like mounds of clay,
> <a name="27:17">27:17</a> what he stores up a righteous man will wear,
> and an innocent man will inherit his silver.
> <a name="27:18">27:18</a> The house he builds is as fragile as a moth’s cocoon,
> like a hut that a watchman has made.
> <a name="27:19">27:19</a> He goes to bed wealthy, but will do so no more.
> When he opens his eyes, it is all gone.
> <a name="27:20">27:20</a> Terrors overwhelm him like a flood;
> at night a whirlwind carries him off.
> <a name="27:21">27:21</a> The east wind carries him away, and he is gone;
> it sweeps him out of his place.
> <a name="27:22">27:22</a> It hurls itself against him without pity
> as he flees headlong from its power.
> <a name="27:23">27:23</a> It claps its hands at him in derision
> and hisses him away from his place.