---
title: 29
parent: Job
other: x
---


Job’s Concluding Soliloquy (<a>29:1-31:40</a>)

## Job Recalls His Former Condition 

<a name="29:1">29:1</a> Then Job continued his speech:

> <a name="29:2">29:2</a> “O that I could be as I was
> in the months now gone,
> in the days when God watched over me,
> <a name="29:3">29:3</a> when he caused his lamp
> to shine upon my head,
> and by his light
> I walked through darkness;
> <a name="29:4">29:4</a> just as I was in my productive time,
> when God’s intimate friendship was experienced in my tent,
> <a name="29:5">29:5</a> when the Almighty was still with me
> and my children were around me;
> <a name="29:6">29:6</a> when my steps were bathed with butter
> and the rock poured out for me streams of olive oil!
> <a name="29:7">29:7</a> When I went out to the city gate
> and secured my seat in the public square,
> <a name="29:8">29:8</a> the young men would see me and step aside,
> and the old men would get up and remain standing;
> <a name="29:9">29:9</a> the chief men restrained from talking
> and covered their mouths with their hands;
> <a name="29:10">29:10</a> the voices of the nobles fell silent,
> and their tongues stuck to the roof of their mouths.

## Job’s Benevolence

> <a name="29:11">29:11</a> “As soon as the ear heard these things, it blessed me,
> and when the eye saw them, it bore witness to me,
> <a name="29:12">29:12</a> for I rescued the poor who cried out for help,
> and the orphan who had no one to assist him;
> <a name="29:13">29:13</a> the blessing of the dying man descended on me,
> and I made the widow’s heart rejoice;
> <a name="29:14">29:14</a> I put on righteousness and it clothed me,
> my just dealing was like a robe and a turban;
> <a name="29:15">29:15</a> I was eyes for the blind
> and feet for the lame;
> <a name="29:16">29:16</a> I was a father to the needy,
> and I investigated the case of the person I did not know;
> <a name="29:17">29:17</a> I broke the fangs of the wicked,
> and made him drop his prey from his teeth.

## Job’s Confidence

> <a name="29:18">29:18</a> “Then I thought, ‘I will die in my own home,
> my days as numerous as the grains of sand.
> <a name="29:19">29:19</a> My roots reach the water,
> and the dew lies on my branches all night long.
> <a name="29:20">29:20</a> My glory will always be fresh in me,
> and my bow ever new in my hand.’

## Job’s Reputation

> <a name="29:21">29:21</a> “People listened to me and waited silently;
> they kept silent for my advice.
> <a name="29:22">29:22</a> After I had spoken, they did not respond;
> my words fell on them drop by drop.
> <a name="29:23">29:23</a> They waited for me as people wait for the rain,
> and they opened their mouths
> as for the spring rains.
> <a name="29:24">29:24</a> If I smiled at them, they hardly believed it;
> and they did not cause the light of my face to darken.
> <a name="29:25">29:25</a> I chose the way for them
> and sat as their chief;
> I lived like a king among his troops;
> I was like one who comforts mourners.