---
title: 30
parent: Job
other: x
---


## Job’s Present Misery 

> <a name="30:1">30:1</a> “But now they mock me, those who are younger than I,
> whose fathers I disdained too much
> to put with my sheep dogs.
> <a name="30:2">30:2</a> Moreover, the strength of their hands — 
> what use was it to me?
> Men whose strength had perished;
> <a name="30:3">30:3</a> gaunt with want and hunger,
> they would gnaw the parched land,
> in former time desolate and waste.
> <a name="30:4">30:4</a> By the brush they would gather herbs from the salt marshes,
> and the root of the broom tree was their food.
> <a name="30:5">30:5</a> They were banished from the community — 
> people shouted at them
> like they would at thieves — 
> <a name="30:6">30:6</a> so that they had to live
> in the dry stream beds,
> in the holes of the ground, and among the rocks.
> <a name="30:7">30:7</a> They brayed like animals among the bushes
> and were huddled together under the nettles.
> <a name="30:8">30:8</a> Sons of senseless and nameless people,
> they were driven out of the land with whips.

## Job’s Indignities

> <a name="30:9">30:9</a> “And now I have become their taunt song;
> I have become a byword among them.
> <a name="30:10">30:10</a> They detest me and maintain their distance;
> they do not hesitate to spit in my face.
> <a name="30:11">30:11</a> Because God has untied my tent cord and afflicted me,
> people throw off all restraint in my presence.
> <a name="30:12">30:12</a> On my right the young rabble rise up;
> they drive me from place to place,
> and build up siege ramps against me.
> <a name="30:13">30:13</a> They destroy my path;
> they succeed in destroying me
> without anyone helping them.
> <a name="30:14">30:14</a> They come in as through a wide breach;
> amid the crash they come rolling in.
> <a name="30:15">30:15</a> Terrors are turned loose on me;
> they drive away my honor like the wind,
> and like a cloud my deliverance has passed away.

## Job’s Despondency

> <a name="30:16">30:16</a> “And now my soul pours itself out within me;
> days of suffering take hold of me.
> <a name="30:17">30:17</a> Night pierces my bones;
> my gnawing pains never cease.
> <a name="30:18">30:18</a> With great power God grasps my clothing;
> he binds me like the collar of my tunic.
> <a name="30:19">30:19</a> He has flung me into the mud,
> and I have come to resemble dust and ashes.
> <a name="30:20">30:20</a> I cry out to you, but you do not answer me;
> I stand up, and you only look at me.
> <a name="30:21">30:21</a> You have become cruel to me;
> with the strength of your hand you attack me.
> <a name="30:22">30:22</a> You pick me up on the wind and make me ride on it;
> you toss me about in the storm.
> <a name="30:23">30:23</a> I know that you are bringing me to death,
> to the meeting place for all the living.

## The Contrast With the Past

> <a name="30:24">30:24</a> “Surely one does not stretch out his hand
> against a broken man
> when he cries for help in his distress.
> <a name="30:25">30:25</a> Have I not wept for the unfortunate?
> Was not my soul grieved for the poor?
> <a name="30:26">30:26</a> But when I hoped for good, trouble came;
> when I expected light, then darkness came.
> <a name="30:27">30:27</a> My heart is in turmoil unceasingly;
> the days of my affliction confront me.
> <a name="30:28">30:28</a> I go about blackened, but not by the sun;
> in the assembly I stand up and cry for help.
> <a name="30:29">30:29</a> I have become a brother to jackals
> and a companion of ostriches.
> <a name="30:30">30:30</a> My skin has turned dark on me;
> my body is hot with fever.
> <a name="30:31">30:31</a> My harp is used for mourning
> and my flute for the sound of weeping.