---
title: 31
parent: Job
other: x
---


## Job Vindicates Himself 

> <a name="31:1">31:1</a> “I made a covenant with my eyes;
> how then could I pay attention to a virgin?
> <a name="31:2">31:2</a> What then would be one’s lot from God above,
> one’s heritage from the Almighty on high?
> <a name="31:3">31:3</a> Is it not misfortune for the unjust,
> and disaster for those who work iniquity?
> <a name="31:4">31:4</a> Does he not see my ways
> and count all my steps?
> <a name="31:5">31:5</a> If I have walked in falsehood,
> and if my foot has hastened to deceit — 
> <a name="31:6">31:6</a> let him weigh me with honest scales;
> then God will discover my integrity.
> <a name="31:7">31:7</a> If my footsteps have strayed from the way,
> if my heart has gone after my eyes,
> or if anything has defiled my hands,
> <a name="31:8">31:8</a> then let me sow and let another eat,
> and let my crops be uprooted.
> <a name="31:9">31:9</a> If my heart has been enticed by a woman,
> and I have lain in wait at my neighbor’s door,
> <a name="31:10">31:10</a> then let my wife turn the millstone for another man,
> and may other men have sexual relations with her.
> <a name="31:11">31:11</a> For I would have committed a shameful act,
> an iniquity to be judged.
> <a name="31:12">31:12</a> For it is a fire that devours even to Destruction,
> and it would uproot all my harvest.
> <a name="31:13">31:13</a> “If I have disregarded the right of my male servant
> or my female servants
> when they disputed with me,
> <a name="31:14">31:14</a> then what will I do when God confronts me in judgment;
> when he intervenes,
> how will I respond to him?
> <a name="31:15">31:15</a> Did not the one who made me in the womb make them?
> Did not the same one form us in the womb?
> <a name="31:16">31:16</a> If I have refused to give the poor what they desired,
> or caused the eyes of the widow to fail,
> <a name="31:17">31:17</a> If I ate my morsel of bread myself,
> and did not share any of it with orphans — 
> <a name="31:18">31:18</a> but from my youth I raised the orphan like a father,
> and from my mother’s womb
> I guided the widow.
> <a name="31:19">31:19</a> If I have seen anyone about to perish for lack of clothing,
> or a poor man without a coat,
> <a name="31:20">31:20</a> whose heart did not bless me
> as he warmed himself with the fleece of my sheep,
> <a name="31:21">31:21</a> if I have raised my hand to vote against the orphan,
> when I saw my support in the court,
> <a name="31:22">31:22</a> then let my arm fall from the shoulder,
> let my arm be broken off at the socket.
> <a name="31:23">31:23</a> For the calamity from God was a terror to me,
> and by reason of his majesty I was powerless.
> <a name="31:24">31:24</a> “If I have put my confidence in gold
> or said to pure gold,
> ‘You are my security!’
> <a name="31:25">31:25</a> if I have rejoiced because of the extent of my wealth,
> or because of the great wealth my hand had gained,
> <a name="31:26">31:26</a> if I looked at the sun when it was shining,
> and the moon advancing as a precious thing,
> <a name="31:27">31:27</a> so that my heart was secretly enticed,
> and my hand threw them a kiss from my mouth,
> <a name="31:28">31:28</a> then this also would be iniquity to be judged,
> for I would have been false to God above.
> <a name="31:29">31:29</a> If I have rejoiced over the misfortune of my enemy
> or exulted because calamity found him — 
> <a name="31:30">31:30</a> I have not even permitted my mouth to sin
> by asking for his life through a curse — 
> <a name="31:31">31:31</a> if the members of my household have never said,
> ‘O that there were someone
> who has not been satisfied from Job’s meat!’ — 
> <a name="31:32">31:32</a> But no stranger had to spend the night outside,
> for I opened my doors to the traveler — 
> <a name="31:33">31:33</a> if I have covered my transgressions as men do,
> by hiding iniquity in my heart,
> <a name="31:34">31:34</a> because I was terrified of the great multitude,
> and the contempt of families terrified me,
> so that I remained silent
> and would not go outdoors — 

## Job’s Appeal

> <a name="31:35">31:35</a> “If only I had someone to hear me!
> Here is my signature — 
> let the Almighty answer me!
> If only I had an indictment
> that my accuser had written.
> <a name="31:36">31:36</a> Surely I would wear it proudly on my shoulder,
> I would bind it on me like a crown;
> <a name="31:37">31:37</a> I would give him an accounting of my steps;
> like a prince I would approach him.

## Job’s Final Solemn Oath

> <a name="31:38">31:38</a> “If my land cried out against me
> and all its furrows wept together,
> <a name="31:39">31:39</a> if I have eaten its produce without paying,
> or caused the death of its owners,
> <a name="31:40">31:40</a> then let thorns sprout up in place of wheat,
> and in place of barley, weeds!”
> The words of Job have ended.

## Chapter 32

### V. The Speeches of Elihu (<a>32:1-37:24</a>)

## Elihu’s First Speech 

<a name="32:1">32:1</a> So these three men refused to answer Job further, because he was righteous in his own eyes. <a name="32:2">32:2</a> Then Elihu son of Barakel the Buzite, of the family of Ram, became very angry. He was angry with Job for justifying himself rather than God. <a name="32:3">32:3</a> With Job’s three friends he was also angry, because they could not find an answer, and so declared Job guilty. <a name="32:4">32:4</a> Now Elihu had waited before speaking to Job, because the others were older than he. <a name="32:5">32:5</a> But when Elihu saw that the three men had no further reply, he became very angry.

## Elihu Claims Wisdom

<a name="32:6">32:6</a> So Elihu son of Barakel the Buzite spoke up:

> “I am young, but you are elderly;
> that is why I was fearful,
> and afraid to explain to you what I know.
> <a name="32:7">32:7</a> I said to myself, ‘Age should speak,
> and length of years should make wisdom known.’
> <a name="32:8">32:8</a> But it is a spirit in people,
> the breath of the Almighty,
> that makes them understand.
> <a name="32:9">32:9</a> It is not the aged who are wise,
> nor old men who understand what is right.
> <a name="32:10">32:10</a> Therefore I say, ‘Listen to me.
> I, even I, will explain what I know.’
> <a name="32:11">32:11</a> Look, I waited for you to speak;
> I listened closely to your wise thoughts, while you were searching for words.
> <a name="32:12">32:12</a> Now I was giving you close attention,
> yet there was no one proving Job wrong,
> not one of you was answering his statements!
> <a name="32:13">32:13</a> So do not say, ‘We have found wisdom!
> God will refute him, not man!’
> <a name="32:14">32:14</a> Job has not directed his words to me,
> and so I will not reply to him with your arguments.

## Job’s Friends Failed to Answer

> <a name="32:15">32:15</a> “They are dismayed and cannot answer any more;
> they have nothing left to say.
> <a name="32:16">32:16</a> And I have waited. But because they do not speak,
> because they stand there and answer no more,
> <a name="32:17">32:17</a> I too will answer my part,
> I too will explain what I know.
> <a name="32:18">32:18</a> For I am full of words,
> and the spirit within me constrains me.
> <a name="32:19">32:19</a> Inside I am like wine which has no outlet,
> like new wineskins ready to burst!
> <a name="32:20">32:20</a> I will speak, so that I may find relief;
> I will open my lips, so that I may answer.
> <a name="32:21">32:21</a> I will not show partiality to anyone,
> nor will I confer a title on any man.
> <a name="32:22">32:22</a> for I do not know how to give honorary titles,
> if I did, my Creator would quickly do away with me.