---
title: 33
parent: Job
other: x
---


## Elihu Invites Job’s Attention 

> <a name="33:1">33:1</a> “But now, O Job, listen to my words,
> and hear everything I have to say!
> <a name="33:2">33:2</a> See now, I have opened my mouth;
> my tongue in my mouth has spoken.
> <a name="33:3">33:3</a> My words come from the uprightness of my heart,
> and my lips will utter knowledge sincerely.
> <a name="33:4">33:4</a> The Spirit of God has made me,
> and the breath of the Almighty gives me life.
> <a name="33:5">33:5</a> Reply to me, if you can;
> set your arguments in order before me
> and take your stand!
> <a name="33:6">33:6</a> Look, I am just like you in relation to God;
> I too have been molded from clay.
> <a name="33:7">33:7</a> Therefore no fear of me should terrify you,
> nor should my pressure be heavy on you.

## Elihu Rejects Job’s Plea of Innocence

> <a name="33:8">33:8</a> “Indeed, you have said in my hearing
> (I heard the sound of the words!):
> <a name="33:9">33:9</a> ‘I am pure, without transgression;
> I am clean and have no iniquity.
> <a name="33:10">33:10</a> Yet God finds occasions with me;
> he regards me as his enemy!
> <a name="33:11">33:11</a> He puts my feet in shackles;
> he watches closely all my paths.’
> <a name="33:12">33:12</a> Now in this, you are not right — I answer you,
> for God is greater than a human being.
> <a name="33:13">33:13</a> Why do you contend against him,
> that he does not answer all a person’s words?

## Elihu Disagrees With Job’s View of God

> <a name="33:14">33:14</a> “For God speaks, the first time in one way,
> the second time in another,
> though a person does not perceive it.
> <a name="33:15">33:15</a> In a dream, a night vision,
> when deep sleep falls on people
> as they sleep in their beds.
> <a name="33:16">33:16</a> Then he gives a revelation to people,
> and terrifies them with warnings,
> <a name="33:17">33:17</a> to turn a person from his sin,
> and to cover a person’s pride.
> <a name="33:18">33:18</a> He spares a person’s life from corruption,
> his very life from crossing over the river.
> <a name="33:19">33:19</a> Or a person is chastened by pain on his bed,
> and with the continual strife of his bones,
> <a name="33:20">33:20</a> so that his life loathes food,
> and his soul rejects appetizing food.
> <a name="33:21">33:21</a> His flesh wastes away from sight,
> and his bones, which were not seen,
> are easily visible.
> <a name="33:22">33:22</a> He draws near to the place of corruption,
> and his life to the messengers of death.
> <a name="33:23">33:23</a> If there is an angel beside him,
> one mediator out of a thousand,
> to tell a person what constitutes his uprightness;
> <a name="33:24">33:24</a> and if God is gracious to him and says,
> ‘Spare him from going down
> to the place of corruption,
> I have found a ransom for him,’
> <a name="33:25">33:25</a> then his flesh is restored like a youth’s;
> he returns to the days of his youthful vigor.
> <a name="33:26">33:26</a> He entreats God, and God delights in him,
> he sees God’s face with rejoicing,
> and God restores to him his righteousness.
> <a name="33:27">33:27</a> That person sings to others, saying:
> ‘I have sinned and falsified what is right,
> but I was not punished according to what I deserved.
> <a name="33:28">33:28</a> He redeemed my life
> from going down to the place of corruption,
> and my life sees the light!’

## Elihu’s Appeal to Job

> <a name="33:29">33:29</a> “Indeed, God does all these things,
> twice, three times, in his dealings with a person,
> <a name="33:30">33:30</a> to turn back his life from the place of corruption,
> that he may be enlightened with the light of life.
> <a name="33:31">33:31</a> Pay attention, Job — listen to me;
> be silent, and I will speak.
> <a name="33:32">33:32</a> If you have any words, reply to me;
> speak, for I want to justify you.
> <a name="33:33">33:33</a> If not, you listen to me;
> be silent, and I will teach you wisdom.”