---
title: 34
parent: Job
other: x
---


## Elihu’s Second Speech 

<a name="34:1">34:1</a> Elihu answered:

> <a name="34:2">34:2</a> “Listen to my words, you wise men;
> hear me, you learned men.
> <a name="34:3">34:3</a> For the ear assesses words
> as the mouth tastes food.
> <a name="34:4">34:4</a> Let us evaluate for ourselves what is right;
> let us come to know among ourselves what is good.
> <a name="34:5">34:5</a> For Job says, ‘I am innocent,
> but God turns away my right.
> <a name="34:6">34:6</a> Concerning my right, should I lie?
> My wound is incurable,
> although I am without transgression.’
> <a name="34:7">34:7</a> What man is like Job,
> who drinks derision like water!
> <a name="34:8">34:8</a> He goes about in company with evildoers,
> he goes along with wicked men.
> <a name="34:9">34:9</a> For he says, ‘It does not profit a man
> when he makes his delight with God.’

## God is Not Unjust

> <a name="34:10">34:10</a> “Therefore, listen to me, you men of understanding.
> Far be it from God to do wickedness,
> from the Almighty to do evil.
> <a name="34:11">34:11</a> For he repays a person for his work,
> and according to the conduct of a person,
> he causes the consequences to find him.
> <a name="34:12">34:12</a> Indeed, in truth, God does not act wickedly,
> and the Almighty does not pervert justice.
> <a name="34:13">34:13</a> Who entrusted to him the earth?
> And who put him over the whole world?
> <a name="34:14">34:14</a> If God were to set his heart on it,
> and gather in his spirit and his breath,
> <a name="34:15">34:15</a> all flesh would perish together
> and human beings would return to dust.

## God Is Impartial and Omniscient

> <a name="34:16">34:16</a> “If you have understanding, listen to this,
> hear what I have to say.
> <a name="34:17">34:17</a> Do you really think
> that one who hates justice can govern?
> And will you declare guilty
> the supremely righteous One,
> <a name="34:18">34:18</a> who says to a king, ‘Worthless man’
> and to nobles, ‘Wicked men,’
> <a name="34:19">34:19</a> who shows no partiality to princes,
> and does not take note of the rich more than the poor,
> because all of them are the work of his hands?
> <a name="34:20">34:20</a> In a moment they die, in the middle of the night,
> people are shaken and they pass away.
> The mighty are removed effortlessly.
> <a name="34:21">34:21</a> For his eyes are on the ways of an individual,
> he observes all a person’s steps.
> <a name="34:22">34:22</a> There is no darkness, and no deep darkness,
> where evildoers can hide themselves.
> <a name="34:23">34:23</a> For he does not still consider a person,
> that he should come before God in judgment.
> <a name="34:24">34:24</a> He shatters the great without inquiry,
> and sets up others in their place.
> <a name="34:25">34:25</a> Therefore, he knows their deeds,
> he overthrows them in the night
> and they are crushed.
> <a name="34:26">34:26</a> He strikes them for their wickedness,
> in a place where people can see,
> <a name="34:27">34:27</a> because they have turned away from following him,
> and have not understood any of his ways,
> <a name="34:28">34:28</a> so that they caused the cry of the poor
> to come before him,
> so that he hears the cry of the needy.
> <a name="34:29">34:29</a> But if God is quiet, who can condemn him?
> If he hides his face, then who can see him?
> Yet he is over the individual and the nation alike,
> <a name="34:30">34:30</a> so that the godless man should not rule,
> and not lay snares for the people.

## Job Is Foolish to Rebel

> <a name="34:31">34:31</a> “Has anyone said to God,
> ‘I have endured chastisement,
> but I will not act wrongly any more.
> <a name="34:32">34:32</a> Teach me what I cannot see.
> If I have done evil, I will do so no more.’
> <a name="34:33">34:33</a> Is it your opinion that God should recompense it,
> because you reject this?
> But you must choose, and not I,
> so tell us what you know.
> <a name="34:34">34:34</a> Men of understanding say to me,
> any wise man listening to me says
> <a name="34:35">34:35</a> that Job speaks without knowledge
> and his words are without understanding.
> <a name="34:36">34:36</a> But Job will be tested to the end,
> because his answers are like those of wicked men.
> <a name="34:37">34:37</a> For he adds transgression to his sin;
> in our midst he claps his hands,
> and multiplies his words against God.”