---
title: 35
parent: Job
other: x
---


## Elihu’s Third Speech 

<a name="35:1">35:1</a> Then Elihu answered:

> <a name="35:2">35:2</a> “Do you think this to be just:
> when you say, ‘My right before God.’
> <a name="35:3">35:3</a> But you say, ‘What will it profit you,’
> and, ‘What do I gain by not sinning?’
> <a name="35:4">35:4</a> I will reply to you,
> and to your friends with you.
> <a name="35:5">35:5</a> Gaze at the heavens and see;
> consider the clouds, which are higher than you!
> <a name="35:6">35:6</a> If you sin, how does it affect God?
> If your transgressions are many,
> what does it do to him?
> <a name="35:7">35:7</a> If you are righteous, what do you give to God,
> or what does he receive from your hand?
> <a name="35:8">35:8</a> Your wickedness affects only a person like yourself,
> and your righteousness only other people.
> <a name="35:9">35:9</a> “People cry out
> because of the excess of oppression;
> they cry out for help
> because of the power of the mighty.
> <a name="35:10">35:10</a> But no one says, ‘Where is God, my Creator,
> who gives songs in the night,
> <a name="35:11">35:11</a> who teaches us more than the wild animals of the earth,
> and makes us wiser than the birds of the air?’
> <a name="35:12">35:12</a> Then they cry out — but he does not answer — 
> because of the arrogance of the wicked.
> <a name="35:13">35:13</a> Surely it is an empty cry — God does not hear it;
> the Almighty does not take notice of it.
> <a name="35:14">35:14</a> How much less, then,
> when you say that you do not perceive him,
> that the case is before him
> and you are waiting for him!
> <a name="35:15">35:15</a> And further, when you say
> that his anger does not punish,
> and that he does not know transgression!
> <a name="35:16">35:16</a> So Job opens his mouth to no purpose;
> without knowledge he multiplies words.”