---
title: 37
parent: Job
other: x
---


> <a name="37:1">37:1</a> At this also my heart pounds
> and leaps from its place.
> <a name="37:2">37:2</a> Listen carefully to the thunder of his voice,
> to the rumbling that proceeds from his mouth.
> <a name="37:3">37:3</a> Under the whole heaven he lets it go,
> even his lightning to the far corners of the earth.
> <a name="37:4">37:4</a> After that a voice roars;
> he thunders with an exalted voice,
> and he does not hold back his lightning bolts
> when his voice is heard.
> <a name="37:5">37:5</a> God thunders with his voice in marvelous ways;
> he does great things beyond our understanding.
> <a name="37:6">37:6</a> For to the snow he says, ‘Fall to earth,’
> and to the torrential rains, ‘Pour down.’
> <a name="37:7">37:7</a> He causes everyone to stop working,
> so that all people may know his work.
> <a name="37:8">37:8</a> The animals go to their lairs,
> and in their dens they remain.
> <a name="37:9">37:9</a> A tempest blows out from its chamber,
> icy cold from the driving winds.
> <a name="37:10">37:10</a> The breath of God produces ice,
> and the breadth of the waters freeze solid.
> <a name="37:11">37:11</a> He loads the clouds with moisture;
> he scatters his lightning through the clouds.
> <a name="37:12">37:12</a> The clouds go round in circles,
> wheeling about according to his plans,
> to carry out all that he commands them
> over the face of the whole inhabited world.
> <a name="37:13">37:13</a> Whether it is for punishment for his land,
> or whether it is for mercy,
> he causes it to find its mark.
> <a name="37:14">37:14</a> “Pay attention to this, Job!
> Stand still and consider the wonders God works.
> <a name="37:15">37:15</a> Do you know how God commands them,
> how he makes lightning flash in his storm cloud?
> <a name="37:16">37:16</a> Do you know about the balancing of the clouds,
> that wondrous activity of him who is perfect in knowledge?
> <a name="37:17">37:17</a> You, whose garments are hot
> when the earth is still because of the south wind,
> <a name="37:18">37:18</a> will you, with him, spread out the clouds,
> solid as a mirror of molten metal?
> <a name="37:19">37:19</a> Tell us what we should say to him.
> We cannot prepare a case
> because of the darkness.
> <a name="37:20">37:20</a> Should he be informed that I want to speak?
> If a man speaks, surely he would be swallowed up!
> <a name="37:21">37:21</a> But now, the sun cannot be looked at — 
> it is bright in the skies — 
> after a wind passed and swept the clouds away.
> <a name="37:22">37:22</a> From the north he comes in golden splendor;
> around God is awesome majesty.
> <a name="37:23">37:23</a> As for the Almighty, we cannot attain to him!
> He is great in power,
> but justice and abundant righteousness he does not oppress.
> <a name="37:24">37:24</a> Therefore people fear him,
> for he does not regard all the wise in heart.”

## Chapter 38

The Divine Speeches (<a>38:1-42:6</a>)

## The Lord’s First Speech 

<a name="38:1">38:1</a> Then the Lord answered Job out of the whirlwind:

> <a name="38:2">38:2</a> “Who is this who darkens counsel
> with words without knowledge?
> <a name="38:3">38:3</a> Get ready for a difficult task like a man;
> I will question you
> and you will inform me!

## God’s questions to Job

> <a name="38:4">38:4</a> “Where were you
> when I laid the foundation of the earth?
> Tell me, if you possess understanding!
> <a name="38:5">38:5</a> Who set its measurements — if you know — 
> or who stretched a measuring line across it?
> <a name="38:6">38:6</a> On what were its bases set,
> or who laid its cornerstone — 
> <a name="38:7">38:7</a> when the morning stars sang in chorus,
> and all the sons of God shouted for joy?
> <a name="38:8">38:8</a> “Who shut up the sea with doors
> when it burst forth, coming out of the womb,
> <a name="38:9">38:9</a> when I made the storm clouds its garment,
> and thick darkness its swaddling band,
> <a name="38:10">38:10</a> when I prescribed its limits,
> and set in place its bars and doors,
> <a name="38:11">38:11</a> when I said, ‘To here you may come
> and no farther,
> here your proud waves will be confined’?
> <a name="38:12">38:12</a> Have you ever in your life commanded the morning,
> or made the dawn know its place,
> <a name="38:13">38:13</a> that it might seize the corners of the earth,
> and shake the wicked out of it?
> <a name="38:14">38:14</a> The earth takes shape like clay under a seal;
> its features are dyed like a garment.
> <a name="38:15">38:15</a> Then from the wicked the light is withheld,
> and the raised arm in violence is broken.
> <a name="38:16">38:16</a> Have you gone to the springs that fill the sea,
> or walked about in the recesses of the deep?
> <a name="38:17">38:17</a> Have the gates of death been revealed to you?
> Have you seen the gates of deep darkness?
> <a name="38:18">38:18</a> Have you considered the vast expanses of the earth?
> Tell me, if you know it all!
> <a name="38:19">38:19</a> “In what direction does light reside,
> and darkness, where is its place,
> <a name="38:20">38:20</a> that you may take them to their borders
> and perceive the pathways to their homes?
> <a name="38:21">38:21</a> You know, for you were born before them;
> and the number of your days is great!
> <a name="38:22">38:22</a> Have you entered the storehouse of the snow,
> or seen the armory of the hail,
> <a name="38:23">38:23</a> which I reserve for the time of trouble,
> for the day of war and battle?
> <a name="38:24">38:24</a> In what direction is lightning dispersed,
> or the east winds scattered over the earth?
> <a name="38:25">38:25</a> Who carves out a channel for the heavy rains,
> and a path for the rumble of thunder,
> <a name="38:26">38:26</a> to cause it to rain on an uninhabited land,
> a desert where there are no human beings,
> <a name="38:27">38:27</a> to satisfy a devastated and desolate land,
> and to cause it to sprout with vegetation?
> <a name="38:28">38:28</a> Does the rain have a father,
> or who has fathered the drops of the dew?
> <a name="38:29">38:29</a> From whose womb does the ice emerge,
> and the frost from the sky, who gives birth to it,
> <a name="38:30">38:30</a> when the waters become hard like stone,
> when the surface of the deep is frozen solid?
> <a name="38:31">38:31</a> Can you tie the bands of the Pleiades,
> or release the cords of Orion?
> <a name="38:32">38:32</a> Can you lead out the constellations
> in their seasons,
> or guide the Bear with its cubs?
> <a name="38:33">38:33</a> Do you know the laws of the heavens,
> or can you set up their rule over the earth?
> <a name="38:34">38:34</a> Can you raise your voice to the clouds
> so that a flood of water covers you?
> <a name="38:35">38:35</a> Can you send out lightning bolts, and they go?
> Will they say to you, ‘Here we are’?
> <a name="38:36">38:36</a> Who has put wisdom in the heart,
> or has imparted understanding to the mind?
> <a name="38:37">38:37</a> Who by wisdom can count the clouds,
> and who can tip over the water jars of heaven,
> <a name="38:38">38:38</a> when the dust hardens into a mass,
> and the clumps of earth stick together?
> <a name="38:39">38:39</a> “Do you hunt prey for the lioness,
> and satisfy the appetite of the lions,
> <a name="38:40">38:40</a> when they crouch in their dens,
> when they wait in ambush in the thicket?
> <a name="38:41">38:41</a> Who prepares prey for the raven,
> when its young cry out to God
> and wander about for lack of food?