---
title: 4
parent: Job
other: x
---


## Eliphaz Begins to Speak 

<a name="4:1">4:1</a> Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered:

> <a name="4:2">4:2</a> “If someone should attempt a word with you,
> will you be impatient?
> But who can refrain from speaking?
> <a name="4:3">4:3</a> Look, you have instructed many,
> you have strengthened feeble hands.
> <a name="4:4">4:4</a> Your words have supported those who stumbled,
> and you have strengthened the knees
> that gave way.
> <a name="4:5">4:5</a> But now the same thing comes to you,
> and you are discouraged;
> it strikes you,
> and you are terrified.
> <a name="4:6">4:6</a> Is not your piety your confidence,
> and your blameless ways your hope?
> <a name="4:7">4:7</a> Call to mind now:
> Who, being innocent, ever perished?
> And where were upright people ever destroyed?
> <a name="4:8">4:8</a> Even as I have seen, those who plow iniquity
> and those who sow trouble reap the same.
> <a name="4:9">4:9</a> By the breath of God they perish,
> and by the blast of his anger they are consumed.
> <a name="4:10">4:10</a> There is the roaring of the lion
> and the growling of the young lion,
> but the teeth of the young lions are broken.
> <a name="4:11">4:11</a> The mighty lion perishes for lack of prey,
> and the cubs of the lioness are scattered.

## Ungodly Complainers Provoke God’s Wrath

> <a name="4:12">4:12</a> “Now a word was secretly brought to me,
> and my ear caught a whisper of it.
> <a name="4:13">4:13</a> In the troubling thoughts of the dreams in the night
> when a deep sleep falls on men,
> <a name="4:14">4:14</a> a trembling gripped me — and a terror! — 
> and made all my bones shake.
> <a name="4:15">4:15</a> Then a breath of air passes by my face;
> it makes the hair of my flesh stand up.
> <a name="4:16">4:16</a> It stands still,
> but I cannot recognize its appearance;
> an image is before my eyes,
> and I hear a murmuring voice:
> <a name="4:17">4:17</a> “Is a mortal man righteous before God?
> Or a man pure before his Creator?
> <a name="4:18">4:18</a> If God puts no trust in his servants
> and attributes folly to his angels,
> <a name="4:19">4:19</a> how much more to those who live in houses of clay,
> whose foundation is in the dust,
> who are crushed like a moth?
> <a name="4:20">4:20</a> They are destroyed from morning to evening;
> they perish forever without anyone regarding it.
> <a name="4:21">4:21</a> Is not their excess wealth taken away from them?
> They die, yet without attaining wisdom.