---
title: 40
parent: Job
other: x
---


## Job’s Reply to God’s Challenge 

<a name="40:1">40:1</a> Then the Lord answered Job:

> <a name="40:2">40:2</a> “Will the one who contends with the Almighty correct him?
> Let the person who accuses God give him an answer!”
> <a name="40:3">40:3</a> Then Job answered the Lord:
> <a name="40:4">40:4</a> “Indeed, I am completely unworthy — how could I reply to you?
> I put my hand over my mouth to silence myself.
> <a name="40:5">40:5</a> I have spoken once, but I cannot answer;
> twice, but I will say no more.”

## The Lord’s Second Speech

<a name="40:6">40:6</a> Then the Lord answered Job from the whirlwind:

> <a name="40:7">40:7</a> “Get ready for a difficult task like a man.
> I will question you and you will inform me!
> <a name="40:8">40:8</a> Would you indeed annul my justice?
> Would you declare me guilty so that you might be right?
> <a name="40:9">40:9</a> Do you have an arm like God’s,
> and can you thunder with a voice like his?
> <a name="40:10">40:10</a> Adorn yourself, then, with majesty and excellency,
> and clothe yourself with glory and honor!
> <a name="40:11">40:11</a> Scatter abroad the abundance of your anger.
> Look at every proud man and bring him low;
> <a name="40:12">40:12</a> Look at every proud man and abase him;
> crush the wicked on the spot!
> <a name="40:13">40:13</a> Hide them in the dust together,
> imprison them in the grave.
> <a name="40:14">40:14</a> Then I myself will acknowledge to you
> that your own right hand can save you.

## The Description of Behemoth

> <a name="40:15">40:15</a> “Look now at Behemoth, which I made as I made you;
> it eats grass like the ox.
> <a name="40:16">40:16</a> Look at its strength in its loins,
> and its power in the muscles of its belly.
> <a name="40:17">40:17</a> It makes its tail stiff like a cedar,
> the sinews of its thighs are tightly wound.
> <a name="40:18">40:18</a> Its bones are tubes of bronze,
> its limbs like bars of iron.
> <a name="40:19">40:19</a> It ranks first among the works of God,
> the One who made it
> has furnished it with a sword.
> <a name="40:20">40:20</a> For the hills bring it food,
> where all the wild animals play.
> <a name="40:21">40:21</a> Under the lotus trees it lies,
> in the secrecy of the reeds and the marsh.
> <a name="40:22">40:22</a> The lotus trees conceal it in their shadow;
> the poplars by the stream conceal it.
> <a name="40:23">40:23</a> If the river rages, it is not disturbed,
> it is secure, though the Jordan
> should surge up to its mouth.
> <a name="40:24">40:24</a> Can anyone catch it by its eyes,
> or pierce its nose with a snare?