---
title: 6
parent: Job
other: x
---


## Job Replies to Eliphaz 

<a name="6:1">6:1</a> Then Job responded:

> <a name="6:2">6:2</a> “Oh if only my grief could be weighed,
> and my misfortune laid on the scales too!
> <a name="6:3">6:3</a> But because it is heavier than the sand of the sea,
> that is why my words have been wild.
> <a name="6:4">6:4</a> For the arrows of the Almighty are within me;
> my spirit drinks their poison;
> God’s sudden terrors are arrayed against me.

## Complaints Reflect Suffering

> <a name="6:5">6:5</a> “Does the wild donkey bray when it is near grass?
> Or does the ox low near its fodder?
> <a name="6:6">6:6</a> Can food that is tasteless be eaten without salt?
> Or is there any taste in the white of an egg?
> <a name="6:7">6:7</a> I have refused to touch such things;
> they are like loathsome food to me.

## A Cry for Death

> <a name="6:8">6:8</a> “Oh that my request would be realized,
> and that God would grant me what I long for!
> <a name="6:9">6:9</a> And that God would be willing to crush me,
> that he would let loose his hand
> and kill me.
> <a name="6:10">6:10</a> Then I would yet have my comfort,
> then I would rejoice,
> in spite of pitiless fear,
> for I have not concealed the words of the Holy One.
> <a name="6:11">6:11</a> What is my strength, that I should wait?
> and what is my end,
> that I should prolong my life?
> <a name="6:12">6:12</a> Is my strength like that of stones?
> or is my flesh of bronze?
> <a name="6:13">6:13</a> Is not my power to help myself nothing,
> and has not every resource been driven from me?

## Disappointing Friends

> <a name="6:14">6:14</a> “To the one in despair, kindness should come from his friend
> even if he forsakes the fear of the Almighty.
> <a name="6:15">6:15</a> My brothers have been as treacherous as a seasonal stream,
> and as the riverbeds of the intermittent streams
> that flow away.
> <a name="6:16">6:16</a> They are dark because of ice;
> snow is piled up over them.
> <a name="6:17">6:17</a> When they are warmed, they dry up,
> when it is hot, they vanish from their place.
> <a name="6:18">6:18</a> Caravans turn aside from their routes;
> they go into the wasteland and perish.
> <a name="6:19">6:19</a> The caravans of Tema looked intently for these streams;
> the traveling merchants of Sheba hoped for them.
> <a name="6:20">6:20</a> They were distressed,
> because each one had been so confident;
> they arrived there, but were disappointed.
> <a name="6:21">6:21</a> For now you have become like these streams that are no help;
> you see a terror, and are afraid.

## Friends’ Fears

> <a name="6:22">6:22</a> “Have I ever said, ‘Give me something,
> and from your fortune make gifts in my favor’?
> <a name="6:23">6:23</a> Or ‘Deliver me from the enemy’s power,
> and from the hand of tyrants ransom me’?

## No Sin Discovered

> <a name="6:24">6:24</a> “Teach me and I, for my part, will be silent;
> explain to me how I have been mistaken.
> <a name="6:25">6:25</a> How painful are honest words!
> But what does your reproof prove?
> <a name="6:26">6:26</a> Do you intend to criticize mere words,
> and treat the words of a despairing man as wind?
> <a name="6:27">6:27</a> Yes, you would gamble for the fatherless,
> and auction off your friend.

## Other Explanation

> <a name="6:28">6:28</a> “Now then, be good enough to look at me;
> and I will not lie to your face!
> <a name="6:29">6:29</a> Relent, let there be no falsehood;
> reconsider, for my righteousness is intact!
> <a name="6:30">6:30</a> Is there any falsehood on my lips?
> Can my mouth not discern evil things?