---
title: 30
parent: Jeremiah
other: x
---


## Introduction to the Book of Consolation

<a name="30:1">30:1</a> The Lord spoke to Jeremiah. He said, <a name="30:2">30:2</a> “The Lord God of Israel who rules over all says, ‘Write everything that I am about to tell you in a scroll. <a name="30:3">30:3</a> For I, the Lord affirm that the time will come when I will reverse the fortunes of my people, Israel and Judah,’ says the Lord. ‘I will bring them back to the land I gave their ancestors and they will take possession of it once again.’”

## Israel and Judah Will Be Delivered After a Time of Deep Distress

<a name="30:4">30:4</a> So here is what the Lord has to say about Israel and Judah. <a name="30:5">30:5</a> Yes, here is what he says:

“Cries of panic and of terror are being heard
and there is no peace in sight.

<a name="30:6">30:6</a> Ask yourselves this and consider it carefully:
Have you ever seen a man give birth to a baby?
Why, then, do I see all these strong men
grabbing their stomachs in pain like a woman giving birth?
And why have their faces
turned so deathly pale?

<a name="30:7">30:7</a> Alas, what a terrible time of trouble it is!
There has never been any like it.
It is a time of trouble for the descendants of Jacob,
but some of them will be rescued out of it.

<a name="30:8">30:8</a> When the time for them to be rescued comes,”
says the Lord who rules over all,
“I will break the yoke of their servitude to foreign domination.
I will tear off their chains of captivity.
Foreigners will then no longer subjugate them.

<a name="30:9">30:9</a> But they will be subject to the Lord their God
and to the Davidic ruler whom I will raise up as king over them.

<a name="30:10">30:10</a> So I, the Lord, tell you not to be afraid,
you descendants of Jacob, my servants.
Don’t be terrified, people of Israel.
For I will rescue you and your descendants
from a faraway land where you are captives.
The descendants of Jacob will return to their land and enjoy peace.
They will be secure and not have anyone to make them afraid.

<a name="30:11">30:11</a> For I, the Lord, affirm that
I will be with you and will rescue you.
I will completely destroy all the nations where I scattered you.
But I will not completely destroy you.
I will indeed discipline you, but only in due measure.
I will not let you go entirely unpunished.”

## The Lord Will Heal the Wounds of Judah

<a name="30:12">30:12</a> Moreover, the Lord says to the people of Zion,

“Your injuries are incurable;
your wounds are severe.

<a name="30:13">30:13</a> There is no one to plead your cause.
There are no remedies for your hurts.
There is no healing for you.

<a name="30:14">30:14</a> All your allies have forgotten you.
They no longer have any concern for you.
For I have attacked you like an enemy would.
I have chastened you cruelly.
That is because your wickedness is so great
and you have sinned so much.

<a name="30:15">30:15</a> Why do you complain about your injuries,
that your pain is incurable?
I have done all this to you
because your wickedness is so great
and you have sinned so much.

<a name="30:16">30:16</a> But all who destroyed you will be destroyed.
All your enemies will go into exile.
Those who plundered you will be plundered.
I will cause those who pillaged you to be pillaged.

<a name="30:17">30:17</a> Yes, I will restore you to health.
I will heal your wounds.
I, the Lord, affirm it.
That is because you have been called an outcast,
Zion, whom no one cares for.”

## The Lord Will Restore Israel and Judah

<a name="30:18">30:18</a> The Lord says,

“I will restore the ruined houses of the descendants of Jacob.
I will show compassion on their ruined homes.
Every city will be rebuilt on its former ruins.
Every fortified dwelling will occupy its traditional site.

<a name="30:19">30:19</a> Out of those places will be heard songs of thanksgiving
and the sounds of laughter and merriment.
I will increase their number and they will not dwindle away.
I will raise them to honor and they will no longer be despised.

<a name="30:20">30:20</a> The descendants of Jacob will enjoy their former privileges.
Their community will be reestablished in my favor
and I will punish all who try to oppress them.

<a name="30:21">30:21</a> One of their own people will be their leader.
Their ruler will come from their own number.
I will invite him to approach me, and he will do so.
Otherwise, he would be hazarding his life if he did.
I, the Lord, affirm it.

<a name="30:22">30:22</a> Then you will again be my people
and I will be your God.

<a name="30:23">30:23</a> Just watch! The wrath of the Lord
will come like a storm.
Like a raging storm it will rage down
on the heads of those who are wicked.

<a name="30:24">30:24</a> The anger of the Lord will not turn back
until he has fully carried out his intended purposes.
In days to come
you will come to understand this.