---
title: 03
parent: Lamentations
other: x
---

## א (Alef)

### The Prophet Speaks:

<a name="3:1">3:1</a> I am the man who has experienced affliction
from the disciplining rod of his wrath.

<a name="3:2">3:2</a> He has driven me into captivity,
and made me walk in deep darkness.

<a name="3:3">3:3</a> He repeatedly attacked me
over and over, continually.

## ב (Bet)

<a name="3:4">3:4</a> He has caused my mortal skin to waste away;
he has broken my bones.

<a name="3:5">3:5</a> He has besieged and surrounded me
with bitter hardship.

<a name="3:6">3:6</a> He has made me reside in intense darkness
like those who died long ago.

## ג (Gimel)

<a name="3:7">3:7</a> He has walled me in so that I cannot escape;
he has weighed me down with heavy prison chains.

<a name="3:8">3:8</a> Even though I cry out desperately for help,
he shuts his ears to my prayer.

<a name="3:9">3:9</a> He has blocked every road I take with a wall of fitted stones;
he has made every path on which I flee impossible to traverse.

## ד (Dalet)

<a name="3:10">3:10</a> He is like a bear lying in wait for me,
like a hidden lion stalking its prey.

<a name="3:11">3:11</a> He dragged me from the path and tore me to pieces,
and mangled me beyond rescue.

<a name="3:12">3:12</a> He drew his bow
and made me the target for his arrows.

## ה (He)

<a name="3:13">3:13</a> He shot his arrows
into my heart.

<a name="3:14">3:14</a> I have become the laughingstock of all people;
I am the subject of their mockery continually.

<a name="3:15">3:15</a> He has made me eat bitter herbs,
and made me drink stagnant water.

## ו (Vav)

<a name="3:16">3:16</a> He has broken my teeth with gravel;
he has made me cower in ashes.

<a name="3:17">3:17</a> I am deprived of peace;
I have forgotten what happiness is.

<a name="3:18">3:18</a> So I said, “My endurance has perished,
I have lost all hope of deliverance from the Lord.”

## ז (Zayin)

<a name="3:19">3:19</a> Just thinking about my impoverished and homeless condition
is bitter poison.

<a name="3:20">3:20</a> When I continually think about this,
I become emotionally depressed.

<a name="3:21">3:21</a> But this I call to mind,
therefore I have hope:

## ח (Khet)

<a name="3:22">3:22</a> The Lord’s many kindnesses never cease,
for his great compassion never comes to an end.

<a name="3:23">3:23</a> They are renewed every morning;
your faithfulness is abundant!

<a name="3:24">3:24</a> I said to myself, “The Lord is the portion of my inheritance;
therefore, I will put my hope in him.”

## ט (Tet)

<a name="3:25">3:25</a> The Lord is good to those who trust in him,
to the one who seeks him.

<a name="3:26">3:26</a> It is good to wait patiently
for deliverance to come from the Lord.

<a name="3:27">3:27</a> It is good for a man to bear the yoke
while he is young.

## י (Yod)

<a name="3:28">3:28</a> Let a person sit alone in silence,
when the Lord is disciplining him.

<a name="3:29">3:29</a> Let him bury his face in the dust;
there may yet be hope.

<a name="3:30">3:30</a> Let him offer his cheek to the one who hits him;
let him have his fill of insults.

## כ (Kaf)

<a name="3:31">3:31</a> For the Lord will not
reject us forever.

<a name="3:32">3:32</a> Though he has caused us grief, he will have compassion on us,
according to the abundance of his kindness.

<a name="3:33">3:33</a> For he does not enjoy bringing affliction
nor causing grief to mortal men.

## ל (Lamed)

<a name="3:34">3:34</a> To crush underfoot
all the prisoners in the land,

<a name="3:35">3:35</a> to deprive a man of his rights
in the presence of the Most High,

<a name="3:36">3:36</a> to subvert a man in his just cause — 
the Lord does not approve of such things!

## מ (Mem)

<a name="3:37">3:37</a> Whose command was ever fulfilled
unless the Lord had decreed it?

<a name="3:38">3:38</a> Is it not from the mouth of the Most High that everything comes — 
both calamity and blessings?

<a name="3:39">3:39</a> Why should any living man complain
when he is punished for his sins?

## נ (Nun)

<a name="3:40">3:40</a> Let us carefully examine our ways,
and let us return to the Lord.

<a name="3:41">3:41</a> Let us lift up our hearts and our hands
to God in heaven:

<a name="3:42">3:42</a> “We have sinned rebelliously;
you have not forgiven.”

## ס (Samek)

<a name="3:43">3:43</a> You have clothed yourself with anger and pursued us;
you have slaughtered us without pity.

<a name="3:44">3:44</a> You have hidden yourself in a cloud
so that no prayer can pass through.

<a name="3:45">3:45</a> You have made us like filthy excrement
in the estimation of the nations.

## פ (Pe)

<a name="3:46">3:46</a> All our enemies brashly proclaim threats
against us.

<a name="3:47">3:47</a> Panic and pitfall have come upon us,
devastation and destruction.

<a name="3:48">3:48</a> Streams of tears flow from my eyes
because my people are destroyed.

## ע (Ayin)

<a name="3:49">3:49</a> Tears flow from my eyes unceasingly;
they will not stop

<a name="3:50">3:50</a> until the Lord looks down
from heaven and sees what has happened.

<a name="3:51">3:51</a> What my eyes see causes grief to me
on account of the abuse of all the women in my city.

## צ (Tsade)

<a name="3:52">3:52</a> For no good reason, my enemies
have hunted me down like a bird.

<a name="3:53">3:53</a> They have tried to end my life in a pit,
by throwing stones on me.

<a name="3:54">3:54</a> The waters closed over my head,
I thought that I was about to die.

## ק (Qof)

<a name="3:55">3:55</a> I called on your name, O Lord,
from the depths of the pit.

<a name="3:56">3:56</a> You heard my plea:
“Do not close your ears to my cry for help!”

<a name="3:57">3:57</a> You came near when I called to you;
you said, “Do not fear!”

## ר (Resh)

<a name="3:58">3:58</a> You championed my cause, O Lord;
you redeemed my life.

<a name="3:59">3:59</a> You have seen the wrong done to me, O Lord;
may you issue judgment on my behalf!

<a name="3:60">3:60</a> You have seen all their vengeance,
all their plots against me.

## ש (Sin/Shin)

<a name="3:61">3:61</a> You have heard their taunts, O Lord,
all their plots against me.

<a name="3:62">3:62</a> My assailants revile and conspire
against me all day long.

<a name="3:63">3:63</a> Look at them! From morning to evening
I am the object of their mocking songs.

## ת (Tav)

<a name="3:64">3:64</a> Pay them back what they deserve, O Lord,
according to what they have done.

<a name="3:65">3:65</a> Render their hearts hard;
may your curse be on them!

<a name="3:66">3:66</a> Pursue them in anger and eradicate them
from under heaven, which belongs to you, O Lord!