---
title: 05
parent: Lamentations
other: x
---

## The People of Jerusalem Pray:

<a name="5:1">5:1</a> O Lord, consider what has happened to us;
please pay attention and take notice of the disgrace we are suffering.

<a name="5:2">5:2</a> Strangers have taken possession of the land that we inherited,
foreigners now occupy our homes.

<a name="5:3">5:3</a> We have become orphans and fatherless,
our mothers have become widows.

<a name="5:4">5:4</a> We must pay money to drink our own water;
we must buy our own wood at a steep price.

<a name="5:5">5:5</a> We are pursued — our adversaries are breathing down our necks;
we are physically worn out and cannot find any rest.

<a name="5:6">5:6</a> We have made treaties with Egypt and Assyria
just to acquire enough food to keep us alive.

<a name="5:7">5:7</a> Our ancestors sinned and are now dead,
so we are left to bear their punishment.

<a name="5:8">5:8</a> Tyrants rule over us;
there is no one to rescue us from their control.

<a name="5:9">5:9</a> We risk our lives when we search for food
because murderous marauders lurk in the countryside.

<a name="5:10">5:10</a> Our skin is hot as an oven;
we are feverish from hunger.

<a name="5:11">5:11</a> Our wives have been raped in the City of Zion;
our virgin daughters have been ravished in the towns of Judah.

<a name="5:12">5:12</a> They executed the royal family by hanging;
they have mistreated our elders.

<a name="5:13">5:13</a> They force our young men to perform menial physical labor;
they make our boys carry heavy loads of wood.

<a name="5:14">5:14</a> The elders no longer conduct business at the city gate;
the young men have stopped playing their joyful music.

<a name="5:15">5:15</a> Our hearts no longer experience any joy;
instead of dancing with joy, we mourn and lament.

<a name="5:16">5:16</a> The crown has fallen from our head;
woe to us, for we have sinned!

<a name="5:17">5:17</a> Because of this, we are very sorrowful;
because of these things, we can hardly see through our tears.

<a name="5:18">5:18</a> For wild animals are prowling over Mount Zion,
which lies deserted.

<a name="5:19">5:19</a> But you, O Lord, reign forever;
your throne endures from generation to generation.

<a name="5:20">5:20</a> Why have you forgotten us forever?
Why do you forsake us so long?

<a name="5:21">5:21</a> Bring us back to yourself, O Lord, and let us return to you;
renew our life as in ancient times.

<a name="5:22">5:22</a> Or are you determined to reject us once and for all?
Are you angry with us beyond limit?