---
title: 01
parent: Proverbs
other: x
---

## Introduction to the Book


<a name="1:1">1:1</a> The Proverbs of Solomon son of David, king of Israel:

<a name="1:2">1:2</a> To learn wisdom and moral instruction, and to discern wise counsel.

<a name="1:3">1:3</a> To receive moral instruction in skillful living, in righteousness, justice, and equity.

<a name="1:4">1:4</a> To impart shrewdness to the morally naive, and a discerning plan to the young person.

<a name="1:5">1:5</a> (Let the wise also hear and gain instruction, and let the discerning acquire guidance!)

<a name="1:6">1:6</a> To discern the meaning of a proverb and a parable, the sayings of the wise and their riddles.

## Introduction to the Theme of the Book


<a name="1:7">1:7</a> Fearing the Lord is the beginning of moral knowledge, but fools despise wisdom and instruction.

<a name="1:8">1:8</a> Listen, my child, to the instruction from your father, and do not forsake the teaching from your mother.

<a name="1:9">1:9</a> For they will be like an elegant garland on your head, and like pendants around your neck.

## Admonition to Avoid Easy but Unjust Riches


<a name="1:10">1:10</a> My child, if sinners try to entice you, do not consent!

<a name="1:11">1:11</a> If they say, “Come with us! We will lie in wait to shed blood; we will ambush an innocent person capriciously.

<a name="1:12">1:12</a> We will swallow them alive like Sheol, those full of vigor like those going down to the Pit.

<a name="1:13">1:13</a> We will seize all kinds of precious wealth; we will fill our houses with plunder.

<a name="1:14">1:14</a> Join with us! We will all share equally in what we steal.”

<a name="1:15">1:15</a> My child, do not go down their way, withhold yourself from their path;

<a name="1:16">1:16</a> for they are eager to inflict harm, and they hasten to shed blood.

<a name="1:17">1:17</a> Surely it is futile to spread a net in view of any bird,

<a name="1:18">1:18</a> but these men lie in wait for their own blood, they ambush their own lives!

<a name="1:19">1:19</a> Such are the ways of all who gain profit unjustly; it takes away the life of those who obtain it.

## Warning Against Disregarding Wisdom


<a name="1:20">1:20</a> Wisdom calls out in the street, she shouts loudly in the plazas;

<a name="1:21">1:21</a> at the head of the noisy streets she calls, in the entrances of the gates in the city she utters her words:

<a name="1:22">1:22</a> “How long will you simpletons love naiveté? How long will mockers delight in mockery and fools hate knowledge?

<a name="1:23">1:23</a> If only you will respond to my rebuke, then I will pour out my thoughts to you and I will make my words known to you.

<a name="1:24">1:24</a> However, because I called but you refused to listen, because I stretched out my hand but no one paid attention,

<a name="1:25">1:25</a> because you neglected all my advice, and did not comply with my rebuke,

<a name="1:26">1:26</a> so I myself will laugh when disaster strikes you, I will mock when what you dread comes,

<a name="1:27">1:27</a> when what you dread comes like a whirlwind, and disaster strikes you like a devastating storm, when distressing trouble comes on you.

<a name="1:28">1:28</a> Then they will call to me, but I will not answer; they will diligently seek me, but they will not find me.

<a name="1:29">1:29</a> Because they hated moral knowledge, and did not choose to fear the Lord,

<a name="1:30">1:30</a> they did not comply with my advice, they spurned all my rebuke.

<a name="1:31">1:31</a> Therefore they will eat from the fruit of their way, and they will be stuffed full of their own counsel.

<a name="1:32">1:32</a> For the waywardness of the simpletons will kill them, and the careless ease of fools will destroy them.

<a name="1:33">1:33</a> But the one who listens to me will live in security, and will be at ease from the dread of harm.
