---
title: 02
parent: Proverbs
other: x
---

## Benefits of Seeking Wisdom


<a name="2:1">2:1</a> My child, if you receive my words, and store up my commands within you,

<a name="2:2">2:2</a> by making your ear attentive to wisdom, and by turning your heart to understanding,

<a name="2:3">2:3</a> indeed, if you call out for understanding, and raise your voice for understanding,

<a name="2:4">2:4</a> if you seek it like silver, and search for it like hidden treasure,

<a name="2:5">2:5</a> then you will understand how to fear the Lord, and you will discover knowledge about God.

<a name="2:6">2:6</a> For the Lord gives wisdom, and from his mouth comes knowledge and understanding.

<a name="2:7">2:7</a> He stores up effective counsel for the upright, and is like a shield for those who live with integrity,

<a name="2:8">2:8</a> to guard the paths of the righteous and to protect the way of his pious ones.

<a name="2:9">2:9</a> Then you will understand righteousness and justice and equity — every good way.

<a name="2:10">2:10</a> For wisdom will enter your heart, and moral knowledge will be attractive to you.

<a name="2:11">2:11</a> Discretion will protect you, understanding will guard you,

<a name="2:12">2:12</a> to deliver you from the way of the wicked, from those speaking perversity,

<a name="2:13">2:13</a> who leave the upright paths to walk on the dark ways,

<a name="2:14">2:14</a> who delight in doing evil, they rejoice in perverse evil;

<a name="2:15">2:15</a> whose paths are morally crooked, and who are devious in their ways;

<a name="2:16">2:16</a> to deliver you from the adulteress, from the sexually loose woman who speaks flattering words;

<a name="2:17">2:17</a> who leaves the husband from her youth, and forgets her marriage covenant made before God.

<a name="2:18">2:18</a> For her house sinks down to death, and her paths lead to the place of the departed spirits.

<a name="2:19">2:19</a> None who go in to her will return, nor will they reach the paths of life.

<a name="2:20">2:20</a> So you will walk in the way of good people, and will keep on the paths of the righteous.

<a name="2:21">2:21</a> For the upright will reside in the land, and those with integrity will remain in it,

<a name="2:22">2:22</a> but the wicked will be cut off from the land, and the treacherous will be torn away from it.
