---
title: 03
parent: Proverbs
other: x
---

## Exhortations to Seek Wisdom and Walk with the Lord


<a name="3:1">3:1</a> My child, do not forget my teaching, but let your heart keep my commandments,

<a name="3:2">3:2</a> for they will provide a long and full life, and they will add well-being to you.

<a name="3:3">3:3</a> Do not let truth and mercy leave you; bind them around your neck, write them on the tablet of your heart.

<a name="3:4">3:4</a> Then you will find favor and good understanding, in the sight of God and people.

<a name="3:5">3:5</a> Trust in the Lord with all your heart, and do not rely on your own understanding.

<a name="3:6">3:6</a> Acknowledge him in all your ways, and he will make your paths straight.

<a name="3:7">3:7</a> Do not be wise in your own estimation; fear the Lord and turn away from evil.

<a name="3:8">3:8</a> This will bring healing to your body, and refreshment to your inner self.

<a name="3:9">3:9</a> Honor the Lord from your wealth and from the first fruits of all your crops;

<a name="3:10">3:10</a> then your barns will be filled completely, and your vats will overflow with new wine.

<a name="3:11">3:11</a> My child, do not despise discipline from the Lord, and do not loathe his rebuke.

<a name="3:12">3:12</a> For the Lord disciplines those he loves, just as a father disciplines the son in whom he delights.

## Blessings of Obtaining Wisdom


<a name="3:13">3:13</a> Blessed is the one who finds wisdom, and the one who obtains understanding.

<a name="3:14">3:14</a> For her benefit is more profitable than silver, and her gain is better than gold.

<a name="3:15">3:15</a> She is more precious than rubies, and none of the things you desire can compare with her.

<a name="3:16">3:16</a> Long life is in her right hand; in her left hand are riches and honor.

<a name="3:17">3:17</a> Her ways are very pleasant, and all her paths are peaceful.

<a name="3:18">3:18</a> She is like a tree of life to those who obtain her, and everyone who grasps hold of her will be blessed.

<a name="3:19">3:19</a> The Lord by wisdom laid the foundation of the earth; he established the heavens by understanding.

<a name="3:20">3:20</a> By his knowledge the primordial sea was broken open, and the clouds drip down dew.

<a name="3:21">3:21</a> My child, do not let them escape from your sight; safeguard sound wisdom and discretion.

<a name="3:22">3:22</a> So they will give life to you, and grace to adorn your neck.

<a name="3:23">3:23</a> Then you will walk on your way with security, and you will not stumble.

<a name="3:24">3:24</a> When you lie down you will not be filled with fear, and when you lie down your sleep will be pleasant.

<a name="3:25">3:25</a> You will not be afraid of sudden disaster, or when destruction comes on the wicked;

<a name="3:26">3:26</a> for the Lord will be the source of your confidence, and he will guard your foot from being ensnared.

## Wisdom Demonstrated in Relationships with People


<a name="3:27">3:27</a> Do not withhold good from those who need it, when you have the ability to do it.

<a name="3:28">3:28</a> Do not say to your neighbor, “Go! Return tomorrow and I will give it” — when you have it with you at the time.

<a name="3:29">3:29</a> Do not plot evil against your neighbor when he dwells by you unsuspectingly.

<a name="3:30">3:30</a> Do not accuse anyone without legitimate cause, if he has not treated you wrongly.

<a name="3:31">3:31</a> Do not envy a violent man, and do not choose any of his ways;

<a name="3:32">3:32</a> for one who goes astray is an abomination to the Lord, but he reveals his intimate counsel to the upright.

<a name="3:33">3:33</a> The Lord’s curse is on the household of the wicked, but he blesses the home of the righteous.

<a name="3:34">3:34</a> Although he is scornful to arrogant scoffers, yet he shows favor to the humble.

<a name="3:35">3:35</a> The wise inherit honor, but he holds fools up to public contempt.
