---
title: 05
parent: Proverbs
other: x
---

## Admonition to Avoid Seduction to Evil


<a name="5:1">5:1</a> My child, be attentive to my wisdom, pay close attention to my understanding,

<a name="5:2">5:2</a> in order to safeguard discretion, and that your lips may guard knowledge.

<a name="5:3">5:3</a> For the lips of the adulterous woman drip honey, and her seductive words are smoother than oil,

<a name="5:4">5:4</a> but in the end she is bitter as wormwood, sharp as a two-edged sword.

<a name="5:5">5:5</a> Her feet go down to death; her steps lead straight to the grave.

<a name="5:6">5:6</a> Lest she should make level the path leading to life, her paths are unstable but she does not know it.

<a name="5:7">5:7</a> So now, children, listen to me; do not turn aside from the words I speak.

<a name="5:8">5:8</a> Keep yourself far from her, and do not go near the door of her house,

<a name="5:9">5:9</a> lest you give your vigor to others and your years to a cruel person,

<a name="5:10">5:10</a> lest strangers devour your strength, and your labor benefit another man’s house.

<a name="5:11">5:11</a> And at the end of your life you will groan when your flesh and your body are wasted away.

<a name="5:12">5:12</a> And you will say, “How I hated discipline! My heart spurned reproof!

<a name="5:13">5:13</a> For I did not obey my teachers and I did not heed my instructors.

<a name="5:14">5:14</a> I almost came to complete ruin in the midst of the whole congregation!”

<a name="5:15">5:15</a> Drink water from your own cistern and running water from your own well.

<a name="5:16">5:16</a> Should your springs be dispersed outside, your streams of water in the wide plazas?

<a name="5:17">5:17</a> Let them be for yourself alone, and not for strangers with you.

<a name="5:18">5:18</a> May your fountain be blessed, and may you rejoice in your young wife — 

<a name="5:19">5:19</a> a loving doe, a graceful deer; may her breasts satisfy you at all times, may you be captivated by her love always.

<a name="5:20">5:20</a> But why should you be captivated, my son, by an adulteress, and embrace the bosom of a different woman?

<a name="5:21">5:21</a> For the ways of a person are in front of the eyes of the Lord, and the Lord weighs all that person’s paths.

<a name="5:22">5:22</a> The wicked will be captured by his own iniquities, and he will be held by the cords of his own sin.

<a name="5:23">5:23</a> He will die because there was no discipline; because of the greatness of his folly he will reel.
