---
title: 08
parent: Proverbs
other: x
---

## The Appeal Of Wisdom


<a name="8:1">8:1</a> Does not wisdom call out? Does not understanding raise her voice?

<a name="8:2">8:2</a> At the top of the elevated places along the way, at the juncture of the paths she takes her stand;

<a name="8:3">8:3</a> beside the gates opening into the city, at the entrance of the doorways she cries out:

<a name="8:4">8:4</a> “To you, O people, I call out, and my voice calls to all mankind.

<a name="8:5">8:5</a> You who are naive, discern wisdom! And you fools, understand discernment!

<a name="8:6">8:6</a> Listen, for I will speak excellent things, and my lips will utter what is right.

<a name="8:7">8:7</a> For my mouth speaks truth, and my lips hate wickedness.

<a name="8:8">8:8</a> All the words of my mouth are righteous; there is nothing in them twisted or crooked.

<a name="8:9">8:9</a> All of them are clear to the discerning and upright to those who find knowledge.

<a name="8:10">8:10</a> Receive my instruction rather than silver, and knowledge rather than choice gold.

<a name="8:11">8:11</a> For wisdom is better than rubies, and desirable things cannot be compared to her.

<a name="8:12">8:12</a> “I, wisdom, live with prudence, and I find knowledge and discretion.

<a name="8:13">8:13</a> The fear of the Lord is to hate evil; I hate arrogant pride and the evil way and perverse utterances.

<a name="8:14">8:14</a> Counsel and sound wisdom belong to me; I possess understanding and might.

<a name="8:15">8:15</a> Kings reign by means of me, and potentates decree righteousness;

<a name="8:16">8:16</a> by me princes rule, as well as nobles and all righteous judges.

<a name="8:17">8:17</a> I love those who love me, and those who seek me find me.

<a name="8:18">8:18</a> Riches and honor are with me, long-lasting wealth and righteousness.

<a name="8:19">8:19</a> My fruit is better than pure gold, and what I produce is better than choice silver.

<a name="8:20">8:20</a> I walk in the path of righteousness, in the midst of the pathway of justice,

<a name="8:21">8:21</a> that I may cause those who love me to inherit righteousness, and fill their treasuries.

<a name="8:22">8:22</a> The Lord created me as the beginning of his way, before his works of old.

<a name="8:23">8:23</a> From eternity I was appointed, from the beginning, from before the world existed.

<a name="8:24">8:24</a> When there were no deep oceans I was given birth, when there were no springs abounding with water;

<a name="8:25">8:25</a> before the mountains were settled, before the hills, I was brought forth,

<a name="8:26">8:26</a> before he made the earth and its fields, or the beginning of the dust of the world.

<a name="8:27">8:27</a> When he established the heavens, I was there; when he marked out the horizon over the face of the deep,

<a name="8:28">8:28</a> when he established the clouds above, when the fountains of the deep grew strong,

<a name="8:29">8:29</a> when he gave the sea his decree that the waters should not pass over his command, when he marked out the foundations of the earth,

<a name="8:30">8:30</a> then I was beside him as a master craftsman, and I was his delight day by day, rejoicing before him at all times,

<a name="8:31">8:31</a> rejoicing in the habitable part of his earth, and delighting in the human beings.

<a name="8:32">8:32</a> “So now, children, listen to me; blessed are those who keep my ways.

<a name="8:33">8:33</a> Listen to my instruction so that you may be wise, and do not neglect it.

<a name="8:34">8:34</a> Blessed is the one who listens to me, watching at my doors day by day, waiting at the posts of my doorway.

<a name="8:35">8:35</a> For the one who finds me finds life and receives favor from the Lord.

<a name="8:36">8:36</a> But the one who does not find me brings harm to himself; all who hate me love death.”
