---
title: 12
parent: Proverbs
other: x
---

<a name="12:1">12:1</a> The one who loves discipline loves knowledge, but the one who hates reproof is stupid.

<a name="12:2">12:2</a> A good person obtains favor from the Lord, but the Lord condemns a person with wicked schemes.

<a name="12:3">12:3</a> No one can be established through wickedness, but a righteous root cannot be moved.

<a name="12:4">12:4</a> A noble wife is the crown of her husband, but the wife who acts shamefully is like rottenness in his bones.

<a name="12:5">12:5</a> The plans of the righteous are just; the counsels of the wicked are deceitful.

<a name="12:6">12:6</a> The words of the wicked lie in wait to shed innocent blood, but the words of the upright will deliver them.

<a name="12:7">12:7</a> The wicked are overthrown and perish, but the righteous household will stand.

<a name="12:8">12:8</a> A person is praised in accordance with his wisdom, but the one who has a twisted mind is despised.

<a name="12:9">12:9</a> Better is a person of humble standing who nevertheless has a servant, than one who pretends to be somebody important yet has no food.

<a name="12:10">12:10</a> A righteous person cares for the life of his animal, but even the most compassionate acts of the wicked are cruel.

<a name="12:11">12:11</a> The one who works his field will have plenty of food, but whoever chases daydreams lacks wisdom.

<a name="12:12">12:12</a> The wicked person desires a stronghold, but the righteous root endures.

<a name="12:13">12:13</a> The evil person is ensnared by the transgression of his speech, but the righteous person escapes out of trouble.

<a name="12:14">12:14</a> A person will be satisfied with good from the fruit of his words, and the work of his hands will be rendered to him.

<a name="12:15">12:15</a> The way of a fool is right in his own opinion, but the one who listens to advice is wise.

<a name="12:16">12:16</a> A fool’s vexation is known at once, but the prudent overlooks an insult.

<a name="12:17">12:17</a> The faithful witness tells what is right, but a false witness speaks deceit.

<a name="12:18">12:18</a> Speaking recklessly is like the thrusts of a sword, but the words of the wise bring healing.

<a name="12:19">12:19</a> The one who tells the truth will endure forever, but the one who lies will last only for a moment.

<a name="12:20">12:20</a> Deceit is in the heart of those who plot evil, but those who promote peace have joy.

<a name="12:21">12:21</a> The righteous do not encounter any harm, but the wicked are filled with calamity.

<a name="12:22">12:22</a> The Lord abhors a person who lies, but those who deal truthfully are his delight.

<a name="12:23">12:23</a> The shrewd person conceals knowledge, but foolish people publicize folly.

<a name="12:24">12:24</a> The diligent person will rule, but the slothful will become a slave.

<a name="12:25">12:25</a> Anxiety in a person’s heart weighs him down, but an encouraging word brings him joy.

<a name="12:26">12:26</a> The righteous person is cautious in his friendship, but the way of the wicked leads them astray.

<a name="12:27">12:27</a> The lazy person does not roast his prey, but personal possessions are precious to the diligent.

<a name="12:28">12:28</a> In the path of righteousness there is life, but another path leads to death.
