---
title: 14
parent: Proverbs
other: x
---

<a name="14:1">14:1</a> Every wise woman builds her household, but a foolish woman tears it down with her own hands.

<a name="14:2">14:2</a> The one who walks in his uprightness fears the Lord, but the one who is perverted in his ways despises him.

<a name="14:3">14:3</a> In the mouth of a fool is a rod for the back, but the words of the wise protect them.

<a name="14:4">14:4</a> Where there are no oxen, the feeding trough is clean, but an abundant harvest is produced by strong oxen.

<a name="14:5">14:5</a> A truthful witness does not lie, but a false witness breathes out lies.

<a name="14:6">14:6</a> The scorner seeks wisdom but finds none, but understanding is easy for a discerning person.

<a name="14:7">14:7</a> Leave the presence of a foolish person, or you will not understand wise counsel.

<a name="14:8">14:8</a> The wisdom of the shrewd person is to discern his way, but the folly of fools is deception.

<a name="14:9">14:9</a> Fools mock at reparation, but among the upright there is favor.

<a name="14:10">14:10</a> The heart knows its own bitterness, and with its joy no one else can share.

<a name="14:11">14:11</a> The household of the wicked will be destroyed, but the tent of the upright will flourish.

<a name="14:12">14:12</a> There is a way that seems right to a person, but its end is the way of death.

<a name="14:13">14:13</a> Even in laughter the heart may ache, and the end of joy may be grief.

<a name="14:14">14:14</a> The backslider will have his fill from his own ways, but a good person will be rewarded for his.

<a name="14:15">14:15</a> A naive person believes everything, but the shrewd person discerns his steps.

<a name="14:16">14:16</a> A wise person is cautious and turns from evil, but a fool throws off restraint and is overconfident.

<a name="14:17">14:17</a> A person who has a quick temper does foolish things, and a person with crafty schemes is hated.

<a name="14:18">14:18</a> The naive inherit folly, but the shrewd are crowned with knowledge.

<a name="14:19">14:19</a> Those who are evil will bow before those who are good, and the wicked will bow at the gates of the righteous.

<a name="14:20">14:20</a> A poor person is disliked even by his neighbors, but those who love the rich are many.

<a name="14:21">14:21</a> The one who despises his neighbor sins, but whoever is kind to the needy is blessed.

<a name="14:22">14:22</a> Do not those who devise evil go astray? but those who plan good exhibit faithful covenant love.

<a name="14:23">14:23</a> In all hard work there is profit, but merely talking about it only brings poverty.

<a name="14:24">14:24</a> The crown of the wise is their riches, but the folly of fools is folly.

<a name="14:25">14:25</a> A truthful witness rescues lives, but the one who breathes lies brings deception.

<a name="14:26">14:26</a> In the fear of the Lord one has strong confidence, and it will be a refuge for his children.

<a name="14:27">14:27</a> The fear of the Lord is like a life-giving fountain, to turn people from deadly snares.

<a name="14:28">14:28</a> A king’s glory is the abundance of people, but the lack of people is the ruin of a ruler.

<a name="14:29">14:29</a> The one who is slow to anger has great understanding, but the one who has a quick temper exalts folly.

<a name="14:30">14:30</a> A tranquil spirit revives the body, but envy is rottenness to the bones.

<a name="14:31">14:31</a> The one who oppresses the poor insults his Creator, but whoever shows favor to the needy honors him.

<a name="14:32">14:32</a> The wicked will be thrown down in his trouble, but the righteous have refuge even in the threat of death.

<a name="14:33">14:33</a> Wisdom rests in the heart of the discerning; it is known even in the heart of fools.

<a name="14:34">14:34</a> Righteousness exalts a nation, but sin is a disgrace to any people.

<a name="14:35">14:35</a> The king shows favor to a wise servant, but his wrath falls on one who acts shamefully.
