---
title: 16
parent: Proverbs
other: x
---

<a name="16:1">16:1</a> The intentions of the heart belong to a man, but the answer of the tongue comes from the Lord.

<a name="16:2">16:2</a> All the ways of a person seem right in his own opinion, but the Lord weighs the motives.

<a name="16:3">16:3</a> Commit your works to the Lord, and your plans will be established.

<a name="16:4">16:4</a> The Lord works everything for its own ends —  even the wicked for the day of disaster.

<a name="16:5">16:5</a> The Lord abhors every arrogant person; one can be sure that they will not go unpunished.

<a name="16:6">16:6</a> Through loyal love and truth iniquity is appeased; through fearing the Lord one avoids evil.

<a name="16:7">16:7</a> When a person’s ways are pleasing to the Lord, he even reconciles his enemies to himself.

<a name="16:8">16:8</a> Better to have a little with righteousness than to have abundant income without justice.

<a name="16:9">16:9</a> A person plans his course, but the Lord directs his steps.

<a name="16:10">16:10</a> The divine verdict is in the words of the king, his pronouncements must not act treacherously against justice.

<a name="16:11">16:11</a> Honest scales and balances are from the Lord; all the weights in the bag are his making.

<a name="16:12">16:12</a> Doing wickedness is an abomination to kings, because a throne is established in righteousness.

<a name="16:13">16:13</a> The delight of kings is righteous counsel, and they love the one who speaks uprightly.

<a name="16:14">16:14</a> A king’s wrath is like a messenger of death, but a wise person appeases it.

<a name="16:15">16:15</a> In the light of the king’s face there is life, and his favor is like the clouds of the spring rain.

<a name="16:16">16:16</a> How much better it is to acquire wisdom than gold; to acquire understanding is more choice than silver.

<a name="16:17">16:17</a> The highway of the upright is to turn away from evil; the one who guards his way safeguards his life.

<a name="16:18">16:18</a> Pride goes before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a fall.

<a name="16:19">16:19</a> It is better to be lowly in spirit with the afflicted than to share the spoils with the proud.

<a name="16:20">16:20</a> The one who deals wisely in a matter will find success, and blessed is the one who trusts in the Lord.

<a name="16:21">16:21</a> The one who is wise in heart is called discerning, and the kind speech increases persuasiveness.

<a name="16:22">16:22</a> Insight is like a life-giving fountain to the one who has wisdom, but folly leads to the discipline of fools.

<a name="16:23">16:23</a> The heart of a wise person makes his speech wise and it adds persuasiveness to his words.

<a name="16:24">16:24</a> Pleasant words are like a honeycomb, sweet to the heart and healing to the bones.

<a name="16:25">16:25</a> There is a way that seems right to a person, but its end is the way of death.

<a name="16:26">16:26</a> The appetite of a laborer works on his behalf, for his hunger urges him to work.

<a name="16:27">16:27</a> A wicked scoundrel digs up evil, and his slander is like a scorching fire.

<a name="16:28">16:28</a> A perverse person spreads dissension, and a gossip separates close friends.

<a name="16:29">16:29</a> A violent person entices his neighbor, and leads him down a path that is terrible.

<a name="16:30">16:30</a> The one who winks his eyes devises perverse things, and one who compresses his lips brings about evil.

<a name="16:31">16:31</a> Gray hair is like a crown of glory; it is attained in the path of righteousness.

<a name="16:32">16:32</a> Better to be slow to anger than to be a mighty warrior, and one who rules his temper is better than one who captures a city.

<a name="16:33">16:33</a> The dice are thrown into the lap, but every decision is from the Lord.
