---
title: 17
parent: Proverbs
other: x
---

<a name="17:1">17:1</a> Better is a dry crust of bread where there is quietness than a house full of feasting with strife.

<a name="17:2">17:2</a> A servant who acts wisely will rule over an heir who behaves shamefully, and will share the inheritance along with the relatives.

<a name="17:3">17:3</a> The crucible is for refining silver and the furnace is for gold, likewise the Lord tests hearts.

<a name="17:4">17:4</a> One who acts wickedly pays attention to evil counsel; a liar listens to a malicious tongue.

<a name="17:5">17:5</a> The one who mocks the poor insults his Creator; whoever rejoices over disaster will not go unpunished.

<a name="17:6">17:6</a> Grandchildren are like a crown to the elderly, and the glory of children is their parents.

<a name="17:7">17:7</a> Excessive speech is not becoming for a fool; how much less are lies for a ruler.

<a name="17:8">17:8</a> A bribe works like a charm for the one who offers it; in whatever he does he succeeds.

<a name="17:9">17:9</a> The one who forgives an offense seeks love, but whoever repeats a matter separates close friends.

<a name="17:10">17:10</a> A rebuke makes a greater impression on a discerning person than a hundred blows on a fool.

<a name="17:11">17:11</a> An evil person seeks only rebellion, and so a cruel messenger will be sent against him.

<a name="17:12">17:12</a> It is better for a person to encounter a mother bear being robbed of her cubs, than to meet a fool in his folly.

<a name="17:13">17:13</a> As for the one who repays evil for good, evil will not leave his house.

<a name="17:14">17:14</a> Starting a quarrel is like letting out water; stop it before strife breaks out!

<a name="17:15">17:15</a> The one who acquits the guilty and condemns the innocent —  both of them are an abomination to the Lord.

<a name="17:16">17:16</a> Of what use is money in the hand of a fool, since he has no intention of acquiring wisdom?

<a name="17:17">17:17</a> A friend loves at all times, and a relative is born to help in adversity.

<a name="17:18">17:18</a> The one who lacks wisdom strikes hands in pledge, and puts up financial security for his neighbor.

<a name="17:19">17:19</a> The one who loves a quarrel loves transgression; whoever builds his gate high seeks destruction.

<a name="17:20">17:20</a> The one who has a perverse heart does not find good, and the one who is deceitful in speech falls into trouble.

<a name="17:21">17:21</a> Whoever brings a fool into the world does so to his grief, and the father of a fool has no joy.

<a name="17:22">17:22</a> A cheerful heart brings good healing, but a crushed spirit dries up the bones.

<a name="17:23">17:23</a> A wicked person receives a bribe secretly to pervert the ways of justice.

<a name="17:24">17:24</a> Wisdom is before the discerning person, but the eyes of a fool run to the end of the earth.

<a name="17:25">17:25</a> A foolish child is a grief to his father, and bitterness to the mother who bore him.

<a name="17:26">17:26</a> It is terrible to punish a righteous person, and to strike honorable men is wrong.

<a name="17:27">17:27</a> The wise person restrains his words, and the one who stays calm is a discerning person.

<a name="17:28">17:28</a> Even a fool who remains silent is considered wise, and the one who holds his tongue is deemed discerning.
