---
title: 18
parent: Proverbs
other: x
---

<a name="18:1">18:1</a> One who has isolated himself seeks his own desires; he rejects all sound judgment.

<a name="18:2">18:2</a> A fool takes no pleasure in understanding but only in disclosing what is on his mind.

<a name="18:3">18:3</a> When a wicked person arrives, contempt shows up with him, and with shame comes a reproach.

<a name="18:4">18:4</a> The words of a person’s mouth are like deep waters, and the fountain of wisdom is like a flowing brook.

<a name="18:5">18:5</a> It is terrible to show partiality to the wicked, by depriving a righteous man of justice.

<a name="18:6">18:6</a> The lips of a fool enter into strife, and his mouth invites a flogging.

<a name="18:7">18:7</a> The mouth of a fool is his ruin, and his lips are a snare for his life.

<a name="18:8">18:8</a> The words of a gossip are like choice morsels; they go down into the person’s innermost being.

<a name="18:9">18:9</a> The one who is slack in his work is a brother to one who destroys.

<a name="18:10">18:10</a> The name of the Lord is like a strong tower; the righteous person runs to it and is set safely on high.

<a name="18:11">18:11</a> The wealth of a rich person is like a strong city, and it is like a high wall in his imagination.

<a name="18:12">18:12</a> Before destruction the heart of a person is proud, but humility comes before honor.

<a name="18:13">18:13</a> The one who gives an answer before he listens —  that is his folly and his shame.

<a name="18:14">18:14</a> A person’s spirit sustains him in sickness —  but who can bear a crushed spirit?

<a name="18:15">18:15</a> The discerning person acquires knowledge, and the wise person seeks knowledge.

<a name="18:16">18:16</a> A person’s gift makes room for him, and leads him before great people.

<a name="18:17">18:17</a> The first to state his case seems right, until his opponent comes and cross-examines him.

<a name="18:18">18:18</a> A toss of a coin ends disputes, and settles the issue between strong opponents.

<a name="18:19">18:19</a> A relative offended is harder to reach than a strong city, and disputes are like the bars of a fortified citadel.

<a name="18:20">18:20</a> From the fruit of a person’s mouth his stomach is satisfied, with the product of his lips is he satisfied.

<a name="18:21">18:21</a> Death and life are in the power of the tongue, and those who love its use will eat its fruit.

<a name="18:22">18:22</a> The one who finds a wife finds what is enjoyable, and receives a pleasurable gift from the Lord.

<a name="18:23">18:23</a> A poor person makes supplications, but a rich man answers harshly.

<a name="18:24">18:24</a> A person who has friends may be harmed by them, but there is a friend who sticks closer than a brother.
