---
title: 21
parent: Proverbs
other: x
---

<a name="21:1">21:1</a> The king’s heart is in the hand of the Lord like channels of water; he turns it wherever he wants.

<a name="21:2">21:2</a> All of a person’s ways seem right in his own opinion, but the Lord evaluates the motivations.

<a name="21:3">21:3</a> To do righteousness and justice is more acceptable to the Lord than sacrifice.

<a name="21:4">21:4</a> Haughty eyes and a proud heart —  the agricultural product of the wicked is sin.

<a name="21:5">21:5</a> The plans of the diligent lead only to plenty, but everyone who is hasty comes only to poverty.

<a name="21:6">21:6</a> Making a fortune by a lying tongue is like a vapor driven back and forth; they seek death.

<a name="21:7">21:7</a> The violence done by the wicked will drag them away because they refuse to do what is right.

<a name="21:8">21:8</a> The way of the guilty person is devious, but as for the pure, his way is upright.

<a name="21:9">21:9</a> It is better to live on a corner of the housetop than in a house in company with a quarrelsome wife.

<a name="21:10">21:10</a> The appetite of the wicked desires evil; his neighbor is shown no favor in his eyes.

<a name="21:11">21:11</a> When a scorner is punished, the naive becomes wise; when a wise person is instructed, he gains knowledge.

<a name="21:12">21:12</a> The Righteous One considers the house of the wicked; he overthrows the wicked to their ruin.

<a name="21:13">21:13</a> The one who shuts his ears to the cry of the poor, he too will cry out and will not be answered.

<a name="21:14">21:14</a> A gift given in secret subdues anger, and a bribe given secretly subdues strong wrath.

<a name="21:15">21:15</a> Doing justice brings joy to the righteous and terror to those who do evil.

<a name="21:16">21:16</a> The one who wanders from the way of wisdom will rest in the company of the departed.

<a name="21:17">21:17</a> The one who loves pleasure will be a poor person; whoever loves wine and anointing oil will not be rich.

<a name="21:18">21:18</a> The wicked become a ransom for the righteous, and the faithless are taken in the place of the upright.

<a name="21:19">21:19</a> It is better to live in a desert land than with a quarrelsome and easily provoked woman.

<a name="21:20">21:20</a> There is desirable treasure and olive oil in the dwelling of the wise, but a foolish person devours all he has.

<a name="21:21">21:21</a> The one who pursues righteousness and love finds life, bounty, and honor.

<a name="21:22">21:22</a> The wise person can scale the city of the mighty and bring down the stronghold in which they trust.

<a name="21:23">21:23</a> The one who guards his mouth and his tongue keeps his life from troubles.

<a name="21:24">21:24</a> A proud and arrogant person, whose name is “Scoffer,” acts with overbearing pride.

<a name="21:25">21:25</a> What the sluggard desires will kill him, for his hands refuse to work.

<a name="21:26">21:26</a> All day long he craves greedily, but the righteous gives and does not hold back.

<a name="21:27">21:27</a> The wicked person’s sacrifice is an abomination; how much more when he brings it with evil intent!

<a name="21:28">21:28</a> A lying witness will perish, but the one who reports accurately speaks forever.

<a name="21:29">21:29</a> A wicked person shows boldness with his face, but as for the upright, he discerns his ways.

<a name="21:30">21:30</a> There is no wisdom and there is no understanding, and there is no counsel against the Lord.

<a name="21:31">21:31</a> A horse is prepared for the day of battle, but the victory is from the Lord.
