---
title: 25
parent: Proverbs
other: x
---

## Proverbs of Solomon Collected by Hezekiah


<a name="25:1">25:1</a> These also are proverbs of Solomon, which the men of King Hezekiah of Judah copied:

<a name="25:2">25:2</a> It is the glory of God to conceal a matter, and it is the glory of a king to search out a matter.

<a name="25:3">25:3</a> As the heaven is high and the earth deep so the hearts of kings are unsearchable.

<a name="25:4">25:4</a> Remove the dross from the silver, and material for the silversmith will emerge;

<a name="25:5">25:5</a> remove the wicked from before the king, and his throne will be established in righteousness.

<a name="25:6">25:6</a> Do not honor yourself before the king, and do not stand in the place of great men;

<a name="25:7">25:7</a> for it is better for him to say to you, “Come up here,” than to put you lower before a prince, whom your eyes have seen.

<a name="25:8">25:8</a> Do not go out hastily to litigation, or what will you do after it when your neighbor puts you to shame?

<a name="25:9">25:9</a> When you argue a case with your neighbor, do not reveal the secret of another person,

<a name="25:10">25:10</a> lest the one who hears it put you to shame and your infamy will never go away.

<a name="25:11">25:11</a> Like apples of gold in settings of silver, so is a word skillfully spoken.

<a name="25:12">25:12</a> Like an earring of gold and an ornament of fine gold, so is a wise reprover to the ear of the one who listens.

<a name="25:13">25:13</a> Like the cold of snow in the time of harvest, so is a faithful messenger to those who send him, for he refreshes the heart of his masters.

<a name="25:14">25:14</a> Like clouded skies and wind without rain, so is the one who boasts of a gift not given.

<a name="25:15">25:15</a> Through patience a ruler can be persuaded, and a soft tongue can break a bone.

<a name="25:16">25:16</a> When you find honey, eat what is sufficient for you, lest you should become filled with it and vomit it up.

<a name="25:17">25:17</a> Make your foot rare in your neighbor’s house, lest he become weary of you and hate you.

<a name="25:18">25:18</a> Like a club or a sword or a sharp arrow, so is the one who testifies against his neighbor as a false witness.

<a name="25:19">25:19</a> Like a bad tooth or a foot out of joint, so is confidence in an unfaithful person at the time of trouble.

<a name="25:20">25:20</a> Like one who takes off a garment on a cold day, or like vinegar poured in soda, so is one who sings songs to a heavy heart.

<a name="25:21">25:21</a> If your enemy is hungry, give him food to eat, and if he is thirsty, give him water to drink,

<a name="25:22">25:22</a> for you will heap coals of fire on his head, and the Lord will reward you.

<a name="25:23">25:23</a> The north wind brings forth rain, and a sly tongue brings forth an angry look.

<a name="25:24">25:24</a> It is better to live on a corner of the housetop than in a house in company with a quarrelsome wife.

<a name="25:25">25:25</a> Like cold water to a weary person, so is good news from a distant land.

<a name="25:26">25:26</a> Like a muddied spring and a polluted well, so is a righteous person who gives way before the wicked.

<a name="25:27">25:27</a> It is not good to eat too much honey, nor is it honorable for people to seek their own glory.

<a name="25:28">25:28</a> Like a city that is broken down and without a wall, so is a person who cannot control his temper.
