---
title: 26
parent: Proverbs
other: x
---

<a name="26:1">26:1</a> Like snow in summer or rain in harvest, so honor is not fitting for a fool.

<a name="26:2">26:2</a> Like a fluttering bird or like a flying swallow, so a causeless curse does not come to rest.

<a name="26:3">26:3</a> A whip for the horse and a bridle for the donkey, and a rod for the backs of fools!

<a name="26:4">26:4</a> Do not answer a fool according to his folly, lest you yourself also be like him.

<a name="26:5">26:5</a> Answer a fool according to his folly, lest he be wise in his own estimation.

<a name="26:6">26:6</a> Like cutting off the feet or drinking violence, so is sending a message in the hand of a fool.

<a name="26:7">26:7</a> Like legs that hang limp from the lame, so is a proverb in the mouth of fools.

<a name="26:8">26:8</a> Like tying a stone in a sling, so is giving honor to a fool.

<a name="26:9">26:9</a> Like a thorn that goes into the hand of a drunkard, so is a proverb in the mouth of a fool.

<a name="26:10">26:10</a> Like an archer who wounds at random, so is the one who hires a fool or hires any passer-by.

<a name="26:11">26:11</a> Like a dog that returns to its vomit, so a fool repeats his folly.

<a name="26:12">26:12</a> Do you see a man wise in his own eyes? There is more hope for a fool than for him.

<a name="26:13">26:13</a> The sluggard says, “There is a lion in the road! A lion in the streets!”

<a name="26:14">26:14</a> Like a door that turns on its hinges, so a sluggard turns on his bed.

<a name="26:15">26:15</a> The sluggard buries his hand in the dish; he is too lazy to bring it back to his mouth.

<a name="26:16">26:16</a> The sluggard is wiser in his own estimation than seven people who respond with good sense.

<a name="26:17">26:17</a> Like one who grabs a wild dog by the ears, so is the person passing by who becomes furious over a quarrel not his own.

<a name="26:18">26:18</a> Like a madman who shoots firebrands and deadly arrows,

<a name="26:19">26:19</a> so is a person who deceives his neighbor, and says, “Was I not only joking?”

<a name="26:20">26:20</a> Where there is no wood, a fire goes out, and where there is no gossip, contention dies down.

<a name="26:21">26:21</a> Like charcoal is to burning coals, and wood to fire, so is a contentious person to kindle strife.

<a name="26:22">26:22</a> The words of a gossip are like delicious morsels; they go down into a person’s innermost being.

<a name="26:23">26:23</a> Like a coating of glaze over earthenware are fervent lips with an evil heart.

<a name="26:24">26:24</a> The one who hates others disguises it with his lips, but he keeps deceit within him.

<a name="26:25">26:25</a> When he speaks graciously, do not believe him, for there are seven abominations within him.

<a name="26:26">26:26</a> Though his hatred may be concealed by deceit, his evil will be uncovered in the assembly.

<a name="26:27">26:27</a> The one who digs a pit will fall into it; the one who rolls a stone — it will come back on him.

<a name="26:28">26:28</a> A lying tongue hates those crushed by it, and a flattering mouth works ruin.
