---
title: 27
parent: Proverbs
other: x
---

<a name="27:1">27:1</a> Do not boast about tomorrow; for you do not know what a day may bring forth.

<a name="27:2">27:2</a> Let another praise you, and not your own mouth; someone else, and not your own lips.

<a name="27:3">27:3</a> A stone is heavy and sand is weighty, but vexation by a fool more burdensome than the two of them.

<a name="27:4">27:4</a> Wrath is cruel and anger is overwhelming, but who can stand before jealousy?

<a name="27:5">27:5</a> Better is open rebuke than hidden love.

<a name="27:6">27:6</a> Faithful are the wounds of a friend, but the kisses of an enemy are excessive.

<a name="27:7">27:7</a> The one whose appetite is satisfied loathes honey, but to the hungry mouth every bitter thing is sweet.

<a name="27:8">27:8</a> Like a bird that wanders from its nest, so is a person who wanders from his place.

<a name="27:9">27:9</a> Ointment and incense make the heart rejoice, likewise the sweetness of one’s friend from sincere counsel.

<a name="27:10">27:10</a> Do not forsake your friend and the friend of your father, and do not enter the house of your brother in the day of your disaster; a neighbor nearby is better than a brother far away.

<a name="27:11">27:11</a> Be wise, my child, and make my heart glad, so that I may answer anyone who taunts me.

<a name="27:12">27:12</a> A shrewd person sees danger and hides himself, but the naive keep right on going and suffer for it.

<a name="27:13">27:13</a> Take his garment that is security for a stranger and hold him in pledge that is surety for strangers.

<a name="27:14">27:14</a> If someone blesses his neighbor with a loud voice early in the morning, it will be counted as a curse to him.

<a name="27:15">27:15</a> A continual dripping on a rainy day and a contentious wife are alike.

<a name="27:16">27:16</a> Whoever hides her hides the wind or grasps oil with his right hand.

<a name="27:17">27:17</a> As iron sharpens iron, so one person sharpens his friend.

<a name="27:18">27:18</a> The one who tends a fig tree will eat its fruit, and whoever takes care of his master will be honored.

<a name="27:19">27:19</a> As in water the face is reflected as a face, so a person’s heart reflects the person.

<a name="27:20">27:20</a> As Death and Destruction are never satisfied, so the eyes of a person are never satisfied.

<a name="27:21">27:21</a> As the crucible is for silver and the furnace is for gold, so a person is proved by the praise he receives.

<a name="27:22">27:22</a> If you should pound the fool in the mortar among the grain with the pestle, his foolishness would not depart from him.

<a name="27:23">27:23</a> Pay careful attention to the condition of your flocks, give careful attention to your herds,

<a name="27:24">27:24</a> for riches do not last forever, nor does a crown last from generation to generation.

<a name="27:25">27:25</a> When the hay is removed and new grass appears, and the grass from the hills is gathered in,

<a name="27:26">27:26</a> the lambs will be for your clothing, and the goats will be for the price of a field.

<a name="27:27">27:27</a> And there will be enough goat’s milk for your food, for the food of your household, and for the maintenance of your servant girls.
