---
title: 28
parent: Proverbs
other: x
---

<a name="28:1">28:1</a> The wicked person flees when there is no one pursuing, but the righteous person is as confident as a lion.

<a name="28:2">28:2</a> When a country is rebellious it has many princes, but by someone who is discerning and knowledgeable order continues.

<a name="28:3">28:3</a> A poor person who oppresses the weak is like a driving rain without food.

<a name="28:4">28:4</a> Those who forsake the law praise the wicked, but those who keep the law contend with them.

<a name="28:5">28:5</a> Evil people do not understand justice, but those who seek the Lord understand it all.

<a name="28:6">28:6</a> A poor person who walks in his integrity is better than one who is perverse in his ways even though he is rich.

<a name="28:7">28:7</a> The one who keeps the law is a discerning child, but a companion of gluttons brings shame to his father.

<a name="28:8">28:8</a> The one who increases his wealth by increasing interest gathers it for someone who is gracious to the needy.

<a name="28:9">28:9</a> The one who turns away his ear from hearing the law, even his prayer is an abomination.

<a name="28:10">28:10</a> The one who leads the upright astray in an evil way will himself fall into his own pit, but the blameless will inherit what is good.

<a name="28:11">28:11</a> A rich person is wise in his own eyes, but a discerning poor person can evaluate him properly.

<a name="28:12">28:12</a> When the righteous rejoice, great is the glory, but when the wicked rise to power, people are sought out.

<a name="28:13">28:13</a> The one who covers his transgressions will not prosper, but whoever confesses and abandons them will find mercy.

<a name="28:14">28:14</a> Blessed is the one who is always cautious, but whoever hardens his heart will fall into evil.

<a name="28:15">28:15</a> Like a roaring lion or a roving bear, so is a wicked ruler over a poor people.

<a name="28:16">28:16</a> The prince who is a great oppressor lacks wisdom, but the one who hates unjust gain will prolong his days.

<a name="28:17">28:17</a> The one who is tormented by the murder of another will flee to the pit; let no one support him.

<a name="28:18">28:18</a> The one who walks blamelessly will be delivered, but whoever is perverse in his ways will fall at once.

<a name="28:19">28:19</a> The one who works his land will be satisfied with food, but whoever chases daydreams will have his fill of poverty.

<a name="28:20">28:20</a> A faithful person will have an abundance of blessings, but the one who hastens to gain riches will not go unpunished.

<a name="28:21">28:21</a> To show partiality is terrible, for a man will transgress over the smallest piece of bread.

<a name="28:22">28:22</a> The stingy person hastens after riches and does not know that poverty will come on him.

<a name="28:23">28:23</a> The one who reproves another will in the end find more favor than the one who flatters with the tongue.

<a name="28:24">28:24</a> The one who robs his father and mother and says, “There is no transgression,” the same is a companion to the one who destroys.

<a name="28:25">28:25</a> The greedy person stirs up dissension, but the one who trusts in the Lord will prosper.

<a name="28:26">28:26</a> The one who trusts in his own heart is a fool, but the one who walks in wisdom will escape.

<a name="28:27">28:27</a> The one who gives to the poor will not lack, but whoever hides his eyes will receive many curses.

<a name="28:28">28:28</a> When the wicked rise, people hide themselves, but when they perish, the righteous increase.
