---
title: 29
parent: Proverbs
other: x
---

<a name="29:1">29:1</a> The one who hardens his neck after numerous rebukes will suddenly be destroyed without remedy.

<a name="29:2">29:2</a> When the righteous become numerous, the people rejoice; when the wicked rule, the people groan.

<a name="29:3">29:3</a> The one who loves wisdom brings joy to his father, but whoever associates with prostitutes wastes his wealth.

<a name="29:4">29:4</a> A king brings stability to a land by justice, but one who exacts tribute tears it down.

<a name="29:5">29:5</a> The one who flatters his neighbor spreads a net for his steps.

<a name="29:6">29:6</a> In the transgression of an evil person there is a snare, but a righteous person can sing and rejoice.

<a name="29:7">29:7</a> The righteous person cares for the legal rights of the poor; the wicked does not understand such knowledge.

<a name="29:8">29:8</a> Scornful people inflame a city, but those who are wise turn away wrath.

<a name="29:9">29:9</a> If a wise person goes to court with a foolish person, there is no rest whether he is angry or laughs.

<a name="29:10">29:10</a> Bloodthirsty people hate someone with integrity; as for the upright, they seek his life.

<a name="29:11">29:11</a> A fool lets out all his temper, but a wise person keeps it back.

<a name="29:12">29:12</a> If a ruler listens to lies, all his ministers will be wicked.

<a name="29:13">29:13</a> The poor person and the oppressor have this in common: the Lord gives light to the eyes of them both.

<a name="29:14">29:14</a> If a king judges the poor in truth, his throne will be established forever.

<a name="29:15">29:15</a> A rod and reproof imparts wisdom, but a child who is unrestrained brings shame to his mother.

<a name="29:16">29:16</a> When the wicked increase, transgression increases, but the righteous will see their downfall.

<a name="29:17">29:17</a> Discipline your child, and he will give you rest; he will give pleasure to you.

<a name="29:18">29:18</a> When there is no vision the people cast off restraint, but the one who keeps the law, blessed is he!

<a name="29:19">29:19</a> A servant cannot be corrected by words, for although he understands, there is no answer.

<a name="29:20">29:20</a> Do you see someone who is hasty in his words? There is more hope for a fool than for him.

<a name="29:21">29:21</a> If someone pampers his servant from youth, he will be a weakling in the end.

<a name="29:22">29:22</a> An angry person stirs up dissension, and a wrathful one is abounding in transgression.

<a name="29:23">29:23</a> A person’s pride will bring him low, but one who has a lowly spirit will gain honor.

<a name="29:24">29:24</a> Whoever shares with a thief is his own enemy; he hears the adjuration, but does not talk.

<a name="29:25">29:25</a> The fear of people becomes a snare, but whoever trusts in the Lord will be set on high.

<a name="29:26">29:26</a> Many people seek the face of a ruler, but it is from the Lord that one receives justice.

<a name="29:27">29:27</a> An unjust person is an abomination to the righteous, and the one who is upright in the way is an abomination to the wicked.
