---
title: 31
parent: Proverbs
other: x
---

## The Words of Lemuel


<a name="31:1">31:1</a> The words of King Lemuel, an oracle that his mother taught him:

<a name="31:2">31:2</a> O my son, O son of my womb, O son of my vows,

<a name="31:3">31:3</a> Do not give your strength to women, nor your ways to that which ruins kings.

<a name="31:4">31:4</a> It is not for kings, O Lemuel, it is not for kings to drink wine, or for rulers to crave strong drink,

<a name="31:5">31:5</a> lest they drink and forget what is decreed, and remove from all the poor their rights.

<a name="31:6">31:6</a> Give strong drink to the one who is perishing, and wine to those who are distressed;

<a name="31:7">31:7</a> let them drink and forget their poverty, and remember their misery no more.

<a name="31:8">31:8</a> Open your mouth on behalf of those unable to speak, for the legal rights of all the dying.

<a name="31:9">31:9</a> Open your mouth, judge in righteousness, and plead the cause of the poor and needy.

## The Wife of Noble Character


<a name="31:10">31:10</a> Who can find a wife of noble character? For her value is far more than rubies.

<a name="31:11">31:11</a> The heart of her husband has confidence in her, and he has no lack of gain.

<a name="31:12">31:12</a> She brings him good and not evil all the days of her life.

<a name="31:13">31:13</a> She obtains wool and flax, and she is pleased to work with her hands.

<a name="31:14">31:14</a> She is like the merchant ships; she brings her food from afar.

<a name="31:15">31:15</a> She also gets up while it is still night, and provides food for her household and a portion to her female servants.

<a name="31:16">31:16</a> She considers a field and buys it; from her own income she plants a vineyard.

<a name="31:17">31:17</a> She begins her work vigorously, and she strengthens her arms.

<a name="31:18">31:18</a> She knows that her merchandise is good, and her lamp does not go out in the night.

<a name="31:19">31:19</a> Her hands take hold of the distaff, and her hands grasp the spindle.

<a name="31:20">31:20</a> She extends her hand to the poor, and reaches out her hand to the needy.

<a name="31:21">31:21</a> She is not afraid of the snow for her household, for all of her household are clothed with scarlet.

<a name="31:22">31:22</a> She makes for herself coverlets; her clothing is fine linen and purple.

<a name="31:23">31:23</a> Her husband is well-known in the city gate when he sits with the elders of the land.

<a name="31:24">31:24</a> She makes linen garments and sells them, and supplies the merchants with sashes.

<a name="31:25">31:25</a> She is clothed with strength and honor, and she can laugh at the time to come.

<a name="31:26">31:26</a> She opens her mouth with wisdom, and loving instruction is on her tongue.

<a name="31:27">31:27</a> She watches over the ways of her household, and does not eat the bread of idleness.

<a name="31:28">31:28</a> Her children rise up and call her blessed, her husband also praises her:

<a name="31:29">31:29</a> “Many daughters have done valiantly, but you surpass them all.”

<a name="31:30">31:30</a> Charm is deceitful and beauty is fleeting, but a woman who fears the Lord will be praised.

<a name="31:31">31:31</a> Give her credit for what she has accomplished, and let her works praise her in the city gates.