---
title: 05
parent: Jeremiah
other: x
---


## Judah is Justly Deserving of Coming Judgment

<a name="5:1">5:1</a> The Lord said,

“Go up and down through the streets of Jerusalem.
Look around and take note.
Search through its public squares.
See if you can find a single person
who deals honestly and tries to be faithful and true.
If you can, then I will not punish this city.

<a name="5:2">5:2</a> These people swear on oath, ‘As surely as the Lord lives ....’
But the fact is, what they swear to is really a lie.”

<a name="5:3">5:3</a> Lord, I know you are concerned about faithfulness and truth.
But even when you punish these people, they feel no remorse.
Even when you nearly destroy them, they refuse to be corrected.
They have become as hardheaded as a rock.
They refuse to change their ways.

<a name="5:4">5:4</a> I thought, “Surely it is only the poor and ignorant who act this way.
They act like fools because they do not know what the Lord demands.
They do not know what their God requires of them.

<a name="5:5">5:5</a> I will go to the leaders
and speak with them.
Surely they know what the Lord demands.
Surely they know what their God requires of them.”
Yet all of them, too, have thrown off his authority
and refused to be subject to him.

<a name="5:6">5:6</a> So like a lion from the thicket their enemies will kill them.
Like a wolf from the desert they will destroy them.
Like a leopard they will lie in wait outside their cities
and totally destroy anyone who ventures out.
This is because they have rebelled so much
and done so many unfaithful things.

<a name="5:7">5:7</a> The Lord asked,
“How can I leave you unpunished, Jerusalem?
Your people have left me and have sworn oaths by gods that are not gods at all.
Even though I supplied all their needs, they were like an unfaithful wife to me.
They went flocking to the houses of prostitutes.

<a name="5:8">5:8</a> They are like lusty, well-fed stallions.
Each of them lusts after his neighbor’s wife.

<a name="5:9">5:9</a> Shouldn’t I punish them for doing such things?” says the Lord.
“Shouldn’t I bring retribution on such a nation as this?

<a name="5:10">5:10</a> “Pass through the vineyards of Israel and Judah and destroy their vines.
But do not destroy them completely.
Strip off their branches
for they do not belong to the Lord.

<a name="5:11">5:11</a> That is because the nations of Israel and Judah
have been very unfaithful to me,”
says the Lord.

<a name="5:12">5:12</a> “These people have denied what the Lord says.
They have said, ‘That is not so!
No harm will come to us.
We will not experience war and famine.

<a name="5:13">5:13</a> The prophets will prove to be full of wind.
The Lord has not spoken through them.
So, let what they say happen to them.’”

<a name="5:14">5:14</a> Because of that, the Lord, the God who rules over all, said to me,
“Because these people have spoken like this,
I will make the words that I put in your mouth like fire.
And I will make this people like wood
which the fiery judgments you speak will burn up.”

<a name="5:15">5:15</a> The Lord says, “Listen, nation of Israel!
I am about to bring a nation from far away to attack you.
It will be a nation that was founded long ago
and has lasted for a long time.
It will be a nation whose language you will not know.
Its people will speak words that you will not be able to understand.

<a name="5:16">5:16</a> All of its soldiers are strong and mighty.
Their arrows bring death.

<a name="5:17">5:17</a> They will eat up your crops and your food.
They will kill off your sons and your daughters.
They will eat up your sheep and your cattle.
They will destroy your vines and your fig trees.
They will batter down with their weapons
the fortified cities you trust in.

<a name="5:18">5:18</a> Yet even then I will not completely destroy you,” says the Lord. <a name="5:19">5:19</a> “So then, Jeremiah, when your people ask, ‘Why has the Lord our God done all this to us?’ tell them, ‘It is because you left me and served foreign gods in your own land. So you will have to serve strangers in a land that does not belong to you.’

<a name="5:20">5:20</a> “Proclaim this message among the descendants of Jacob.
Make it known throughout Judah.

<a name="5:21">5:21</a> Tell them: ‘Hear this,
you foolish people who have no understanding,
who have eyes but do not see,
who have ears but do not hear:

<a name="5:22">5:22</a> “Shouldn’t you revere me?” says the Lord.
“Shouldn’t you tremble in awe before me?
I made the sand to be a boundary for the sea,
a permanent barrier that it can never cross.
Its waves may roll, but they can never prevail.
They may roar, but they can never cross beyond that boundary.”

<a name="5:23">5:23</a> But these people have stubborn and rebellious hearts.
They have turned aside and gone their own way.

<a name="5:24">5:24</a> They do not say to themselves,
“Let us revere the Lord our God.
It is he who gives us the autumn rains and the spring rains at the proper time.
It is he who assures us of the regular weeks of harvest.”

<a name="5:25">5:25</a> Your misdeeds have stopped these things from coming.
Your sins have deprived you of my bounty.’

<a name="5:26">5:26</a> “Indeed, there are wicked scoundrels among my people.
They lie in wait like bird catchers hiding in ambush.
They set deadly traps to catch people.

<a name="5:27">5:27</a> Like a cage filled with the birds that have been caught,
their houses are filled with the gains of their fraud and deceit.
That is how they have gotten so rich and powerful.

<a name="5:28">5:28</a> That is how they have grown fat and sleek.
There is no limit to the evil things they do.
They do not plead the cause of the fatherless in such a way as to win it.
They do not defend the rights of the poor.

<a name="5:29">5:29</a> Shouldn’t I punish them for doing such things?” says the Lord.
“Shouldn’t I bring retribution on such a nation as this?

<a name="5:30">5:30</a> “Something horrible and shocking
is going on in the land of Judah:

<a name="5:31">5:31</a> The prophets prophesy lies.
The priests exercise power by their own authority.
And my people love to have it that way.
But what will you do when the end comes?