---
title: 40
parent: Jeremiah
other: x
---


## Jeremiah Is Set Free A Second Time

<a name="40:1">40:1</a> The Lord spoke to Jeremiah after Nebuzaradan, the captain of the royal guard, had set him free at Ramah. He had taken him there in chains along with all the people from Jerusalem and Judah who were being carried off to exile to Babylon. <a name="40:2">40:2</a> The captain of the royal guard took Jeremiah aside and said to him, “The Lord your God threatened this place with this disaster <a name="40:3">40:3</a> and now he has brought it about. The Lord has done just what he threatened he would do. This disaster has happened because you people sinned against the Lord and did not obey him. <a name="40:4">40:4</a> But now, Jeremiah, today I am going to set you free from the chains on your wrists. If you would like to come to Babylon with me, come along and I will look out for you. But if you would prefer not to come to Babylon with me, you don’t have to. You are free to go anywhere in the land you want to go. Go wherever you think is best and right.” <a name="40:5">40:5</a> And before Jeremiah could turn to leave, the captain of the guard added, “Go back to Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam and grandson of Shaphan, whom the king of Babylon appointed to govern the towns of Judah. Go back and live with him among the people. Or go wherever else you think is right.” Then the captain of the guard gave Jeremiah some food and a present and let him go. <a name="40:6">40:6</a> So Jeremiah went to Gedaliah son of Ahikam at Mizpah and lived there with him. He stayed there to live among the people who had been left in the land of Judah.

## A Small Judean Province is Established at Mizpah

<a name="40:7">40:7</a> Some of the officers of the Judean army and their troops had been hiding in the countryside. They heard that the king of Babylon had appointed Gedaliah son of Ahikam to govern the country. They also heard that he had been put in charge over the men, women, and children from the poorer classes of the land who had not been carried off into exile in Babylon. <a name="40:8">40:8</a> So all these officers and their troops came to Gedaliah at Mizpah. The officers who came were Ishmael son of Nethaniah, Johanan and Jonathan the sons of Kareah, Seraiah son of Tanhumeth, the sons of Ephai the Netophathite, and Jezaniah son of the Maacathite. <a name="40:9">40:9</a> Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam and grandson of Shaphan, took an oath so as to give them and their troops some assurance of safety. He said, “You don’t need to be afraid to submit to the Babylonians. Settle down in the land and submit to the king of Babylon. Then things will go well for you. <a name="40:10">40:10</a> I for my part will stay at Mizpah to represent you before the Babylonians whenever they come to us. You for your part go ahead and harvest the wine, the dates and figs, and the olive oil and store them in jars. Go ahead and settle down in the towns that you have taken over.” <a name="40:11">40:11</a> Moreover, all the Judeans who were in Moab, Ammon, Edom, and all the other countries heard what had happened. They heard that the king of Babylon had let some people stay in Judah and that he had appointed Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam and grandson of Shaphan, to govern them. <a name="40:12">40:12</a> So all these Judeans returned to the land of Judah from the places where they had been scattered. They came to Gedaliah at Mizpah. And they harvested a large amount of wine and dates and figs.

## Ishmael Murders Gedaliah and Carries the Judeans at Mizpah off as Captives

<a name="40:13">40:13</a> Johanan and all the officers of the troops that had been hiding in the open country came to Gedaliah at Mizpah. <a name="40:14">40:14</a> They said to him, “Are you at all aware that King Baalis of Ammon has sent Ishmael son of Nethaniah to kill you?” But Gedaliah son of Ahikam would not believe them. <a name="40:15">40:15</a> Then Johanan son of Kareah spoke privately to Gedaliah there at Mizpah. He said, “Let me go and kill Ishmael the son of Nethaniah before anyone knows about it. Otherwise he will kill you and all the Judeans who have rallied around you will be scattered. Then what is left of Judah will disappear.” <a name="40:16">40:16</a> But Gedaliah son of Ahikam said to Johanan son of Kareah, “Don’t do that, because what you are saying about Ishmael isn’t true.”