---
title: 24
parent: Acts
other: x
---
## The Accusations Against Paul

<a name="24:1">24:1</a> After five days the high priest Ananias came down with some elders and an attorney named Tertullus, and they brought formal charges against Paul to the governor. <a name="24:2">24:2</a> When Paul had been summoned, Tertullus began to accuse him, saying, “We have experienced a lengthy time of peace through your rule, and reforms are being made in this nation through your foresight. <a name="24:3">24:3</a> Most excellent Felix, we acknowledge this everywhere and in every way with all gratitude. <a name="24:4">24:4</a> But so that I may not delay you any further, I beg you to hear us briefly with your customary graciousness. <a name="24:5">24:5</a> For we have found this man to be a troublemaker, one who stirs up riots among all the Jews throughout the world, and a ringleader of the sect of the Nazarenes. <a name="24:6">24:6</a> He even tried to desecrate the temple, so we arrested him. <a name="24:8">24:8</a> When you examine him yourself, you will be able to learn from him about all these things we are accusing him of doing.” <a name="24:9">24:9</a> The Jews also joined in the verbal attack, claiming that these things were true.

## Paul’s Defense Before Felix

<a name="24:10">24:10</a> When the governor gestured for him to speak, Paul replied, “Because I know that you have been a judge over this nation for many years, I confidently make my defense. <a name="24:11">24:11</a> As you can verify for yourself, not more than twelve days ago I went up to Jerusalem to worship. <a name="24:12">24:12</a> They did not find me arguing with anyone or stirring up a crowd in the temple courts or in the synagogues or throughout the city, <a name="24:13">24:13</a> nor can they prove to you the things they are accusing me of doing. <a name="24:14">24:14</a> But I confess this to you, that I worship the God of our ancestors according to the Way (which they call a sect), believing everything that is according to the law and that is written in the prophets. <a name="24:15">24:15</a> I have a hope in God (a hope that these men themselves accept too) that there is going to be a resurrection of both the righteous and the unrighteous. <a name="24:16">24:16</a> This is the reason I do my best to always have a clear conscience toward God and toward people. <a name="24:17">24:17</a> After several years I came to bring to my people gifts for the poor and to present offerings, <a name="24:18">24:18</a> which I was doing when they found me in the temple, ritually purified, without a crowd or a disturbance. <a name="24:19">24:19</a> But there are some Jews from the province of Asia who should be here before you and bring charges, if they have anything against me. <a name="24:20">24:20</a> Or these men here should tell what crime they found me guilty of when I stood before the council, <a name="24:21">24:21</a> other than this one thing I shouted out while I stood before them: ‘I am on trial before you today concerning the resurrection of the dead.’”

<a name="24:22">24:22</a> Then Felix, who understood the facts concerning the Way more accurately, adjourned their hearing, saying, “When Lysias the commanding officer comes down, I will decide your case.” <a name="24:23">24:23</a> He ordered the centurion to guard Paul, but to let him have some freedom, and not to prevent any of his friends from meeting his needs.

## Paul Speaks Repeatedly to Felix

<a name="24:24">24:24</a> Some days later, when Felix arrived with his wife Drusilla, who was Jewish, he sent for Paul and heard him speak about faith in Christ Jesus. <a name="24:25">24:25</a> While Paul was discussing righteousness, self-control, and the coming judgment, Felix became frightened and said, “Go away for now, and when I have an opportunity, I will send for you.” <a name="24:26">24:26</a> At the same time he was also hoping that Paul would give him money, and for this reason he sent for Paul as often as possible and talked with him. <a name="24:27">24:27</a> After two years had passed, Porcius Festus succeeded Felix, and because he wanted to do the Jews a favor, Felix left Paul in prison.

