---
title: 05
parent: 1 Peter
other: x
---

## Leading and Living in God’s Flock

<a name="5:1">5:1</a> So as your fellow elder and a witness of Christ’s sufferings and as one who shares in the glory that will be revealed, I urge the elders among you: <a name="5:2">5:2</a> Give a shepherd’s care to God’s flock among you, exercising oversight not merely as a duty but willingly under God’s direction, not for shameful profit but eagerly. <a name="5:3">5:3</a> And do not lord it over those entrusted to you, but be examples to the flock. <a name="5:4">5:4</a> Then when the Chief Shepherd appears, you will receive the crown of glory that never fades away.

<a name="5:5">5:5</a> In the same way, you who are younger, be subject to the elders. And all of you, clothe yourselves with humility toward one another, because God opposes the proud but gives grace to the humble. <a name="5:6">5:6</a> And God will exalt you in due time, if you humble yourselves under his mighty hand <a name="5:7">5:7</a> by casting all your cares on him because he cares for you. <a name="5:8">5:8</a> Be sober and alert. Your enemy the devil, like a roaring lion, is on the prowl looking for someone to devour. <a name="5:9">5:9</a> Resist him, strong in your faith, because you know that your brothers and sisters throughout the world are enduring the same kinds of suffering. <a name="5:10">5:10</a> And, after you have suffered for a little while, the God of all grace who called you to his eternal glory in Christ will himself restore, confirm, strengthen, and establish you. <a name="5:11">5:11</a> To him belongs the power forever. Amen.

## Final Greetings

<a name="5:12">5:12</a> Through Silvanus, whom I know to be a faithful brother, I have written to you briefly, in order to encourage you and testify that this is the true grace of God. Stand fast in it. <a name="5:13">5:13</a> The church in Babylon, chosen together with you, greets you, and so does Mark, my son. <a name="5:14">5:14</a> Greet one another with a loving kiss. Peace to all of you who are in Christ.
