---
title: 03
parent: Titus
other: x
---

## Conduct Toward Those Outside the Church

<a name="3:1">3:1</a> Remind them to be subject to rulers and authorities, to be obedient, to be ready for every good work. <a name="3:2">3:2</a> They must not slander anyone, but be peaceable, gentle, showing complete courtesy to all people. <a name="3:3">3:3</a> For we too were once foolish, disobedient, misled, enslaved to various passions and desires, spending our lives in evil and envy, hateful and hating one another. <a name="3:4">3:4</a> But “when the kindness of God our Savior and his love for mankind appeared, <a name="3:5">3:5</a> he saved us not by works of righteousness that we have done but on the basis of his mercy, through the washing of the new birth and the renewing of the Holy Spirit, <a name="3:6">3:6</a> whom he poured out on us in full measure through Jesus Christ our Savior. <a name="3:7">3:7</a> And so, since we have been justified by his grace, we become heirs with the confident expectation of eternal life.”

## Summary of the Letter

<a name="3:8">3:8</a> This saying is trustworthy, and I want you to insist on such truths, so that those who have placed their faith in God may be intent on engaging in good works. These things are good and beneficial for all people. <a name="3:9">3:9</a> But avoid foolish controversies, genealogies, quarrels, and fights about the law, because they are useless and empty. <a name="3:10">3:10</a> Reject a divisive person after one or two warnings. <a name="3:11">3:11</a> You know that such a person is twisted by sin and is conscious of it himself.

## Final Instructions and Greeting

<a name="3:12">3:12</a> When I send Artemas or Tychicus to you, do your best to come to me at Nicopolis, for I have decided to spend the winter there. <a name="3:13">3:13</a> Make every effort to help Zenas the lawyer and Apollos on their way; make sure they have what they need. <a name="3:14">3:14</a> Here is another way that our people can learn to engage in good works to meet pressing needs and so not be unfruitful. <a name="3:15">3:15</a> Everyone with me greets you. Greet those who love us in the faith. Grace be with you all.
