---
title: 05
parent: Ephesians
other: x
---
## Live in Love

<a name="5:1">5:1</a> Therefore, be imitators of God as dearly loved children <a name="5:2">5:2</a> and live in love, just as Christ also loved us and gave himself for us, a sacrificial and fragrant offering to God. <a name="5:3">5:3</a> But among you there must not be either sexual immorality, impurity of any kind, or greed, as these are not fitting for the saints. <a name="5:4">5:4</a> Neither should there be vulgar speech, foolish talk, or coarse jesting — all of which are out of character — but rather thanksgiving. <a name="5:5">5:5</a> For you can be confident of this one thing: that no person who is immoral, impure, or greedy (such a person is an idolater) has any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God.

## Live in the Light

<a name="5:6">5:6</a> Let nobody deceive you with empty words, for because of these things God’s wrath comes on the sons of disobedience. <a name="5:7">5:7</a> Therefore do not be partakers with them, <a name="5:8">5:8</a> for you were at one time darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. Walk as children of the light — <a name="5:9">5:9</a> for the fruit of the light consists in all goodness, righteousness, and truth — <a name="5:10">5:10</a> trying to learn what is pleasing to the Lord. <a name="5:11">5:11</a> Do not participate in the unfruitful deeds of darkness, but rather expose them. <a name="5:12">5:12</a> For the things they do in secret are shameful even to mention. <a name="5:13">5:13</a> But all things being exposed by the light are made evident. <a name="5:14">5:14</a> For everything made evident is light, and for this reason it says:

> “Awake, O sleeper!
> Rise from the dead,
> and Christ will shine on you!”

## Live Wisely

<a name="5:15">5:15</a> Therefore be very careful how you live — not as unwise but as wise, <a name="5:16">5:16</a> taking advantage of every opportunity, because the days are evil. <a name="5:17">5:17</a> For this reason do not be foolish, but be wise by understanding what the Lord’s will is. <a name="5:18">5:18</a> And do not get drunk with wine, which is debauchery, but be filled by the Spirit, <a name="5:19">5:19</a> speaking to one another in psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs, singing and making music in your hearts to the Lord, <a name="5:20">5:20</a> always giving thanks to God the Father for each other in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, <a name="5:21">5:21</a> and submitting to one another out of reverence for Christ.

## Exhortations to Households

<a name="5:22">5:22</a> Wives, submit to your husbands as to the Lord, <a name="5:23">5:23</a> because the husband is the head of the wife as also Christ is the head of the church — he himself being the savior of the body. <a name="5:24">5:24</a> But as the church submits to Christ, so also wives should submit to their husbands in everything. <a name="5:25">5:25</a> Husbands, love your wives just as Christ loved the church and gave himself for her <a name="5:26">5:26</a> to sanctify her by cleansing her with the washing of the water by the word, <a name="5:27">5:27</a> so that he may present the church to himself as glorious — not having a stain or wrinkle, or any such blemish, but holy and blameless. <a name="5:28">5:28</a> In the same way husbands ought to love their wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself. <a name="5:29">5:29</a> For no one has ever hated his own body but he feeds it and takes care of it, just as Christ also does the church, <a name="5:30">5:30</a> for we are members of his body. <a name="5:31">5:31</a> For this reason a man will leave his father and mother and will be joined to his wife, and the two will become one flesh. <a name="5:32">5:32</a> This mystery is great — but I am actually speaking with reference to Christ and the church. <a name="5:33">5:33</a> Nevertheless, each one of you must also love his own wife as he loves himself, and the wife must respect her husband.
