---
title: 02
parent: Timothy 1
other: x
---
## Prayer for All People

<a name="2:1">2:1</a> First of all, then, I urge that requests, prayers, intercessions, and thanks be offered on behalf of all people, <a name="2:2">2:2</a> even for kings and all who are in authority, that we may lead a peaceful and quiet life in all godliness and dignity. <a name="2:3">2:3</a> Such prayer for all is good and welcomed before God our Savior, <a name="2:4">2:4</a> since he wants all people to be saved and to come to a knowledge of the truth. <a name="2:5">2:5</a> For there is one God and one intermediary between God and humanity, Christ Jesus, himself human, <a name="2:6">2:6</a> who gave himself as a ransom for all, revealing God’s purpose at his appointed time. <a name="2:7">2:7</a> For this I was appointed a preacher and apostle — I am telling the truth; I am not lying — and a teacher of the Gentiles in faith and truth. <a name="2:8">2:8</a> So I want the men to pray in every place, lifting up holy hands without anger or dispute.

## Conduct of Women

<a name="2:9">2:9</a> Likewise the women are to dress in suitable apparel, with modesty and self-control. Their adornment must not be with braided hair and gold or pearls or expensive clothing, <a name="2:10">2:10</a> but with good deeds, as is proper for women who profess reverence for God. <a name="2:11">2:11</a> A woman must learn quietly with all submissiveness. <a name="2:12">2:12</a> But I do not allow a woman to teach or exercise authority over a man. She must remain quiet. <a name="2:13">2:13</a> For Adam was formed first and then Eve. <a name="2:14">2:14</a> And Adam was not deceived, but the woman, because she was fully deceived, fell into transgression. <a name="2:15">2:15</a> But she will be delivered through childbearing, if she continues in faith and love and holiness with self-control.
