---
title: 04
parent: Colossians
other: x
---

<a name="4:1">4:1</a> Masters, treat your slaves with justice and fairness, because you know that you also have a master in heaven.

### Exhortation to Pray for the Success of Paul’s Mission

<a name="4:2">4:2</a> Be devoted to prayer, keeping alert in it with thanksgiving. <a name="4:3">4:3</a> At the same time pray for us too, that God may open a door for the message so that we may proclaim the mystery of Christ, for which I am in chains. <a name="4:4">4:4</a> Pray that I may make it known as I should. <a name="4:5">4:5</a> Conduct yourselves with wisdom toward outsiders, making the most of the opportunities. <a name="4:6">4:6</a> Let your speech always be gracious, seasoned with salt, so that you may know how you should answer everyone.

### Personal Greetings and Instructions

<a name="4:7">4:7</a> Tychicus, a dear brother, faithful minister, and fellow slave in the Lord, will tell you all the news about me. <a name="4:8">4:8</a> I sent him to you for this very purpose, that you may know how we are doing and that he may encourage your hearts. <a name="4:9">4:9</a> I sent him with Onesimus, the faithful and dear brother, who is one of you. They will tell you about everything here.

<a name="4:10">4:10</a> Aristarchus, my fellow prisoner, sends you greetings, as does Mark, the cousin of Barnabas (about whom you received instructions; if he comes to you, welcome him). <a name="4:11">4:11</a> And Jesus who is called Justus also sends greetings. In terms of Jewish converts, these are the only fellow workers for the kingdom of God, and they have been a comfort to me. <a name="4:12">4:12</a> Epaphras, who is one of you and a slave of Christ, greets you. He is always struggling in prayer on your behalf, so that you may stand mature and fully assured in all the will of God. <a name="4:13">4:13</a> For I can testify that he has worked hard for you and for those in Laodicea and Hierapolis. <a name="4:14">4:14</a> Our dear friend Luke the physician and Demas greet you. <a name="4:15">4:15</a> Give my greetings to the brothers and sisters who are in Laodicea and to Nympha and the church that meets in her house. <a name="4:16">4:16</a> And after you have read this letter, have it read to the church of Laodicea. In turn, read the letter from Laodicea as well. <a name="4:17">4:17</a> And tell Archippus, “See to it that you complete the ministry you received in the Lord.”

<a name="4:18">4:18</a> I, Paul, write this greeting by my own hand. Remember my chains. Grace be with you.
