---
title: 03
parent: Exodus
other: x
---

<a name="3:1">3:1</a> Now Moses was shepherding the flock of Jethro his father-in-law, the priest of Midian, and he led the flock to the far side of the desert and came to the mountain of God, to Horeb. <a name="3:2">3:2</a> The Angel of The Lord appeared to him in a flame of fire from within a bush. He looked  —  and the bush was ablaze with fire, but it was not being consumed! <a name="3:3">3:3</a> So Moses thought, “I will turn aside to see this amazing sight. Why does the bush not burn up?” <a name="3:4">3:4</a> When The Lord saw that he had turned aside to look, God called to him from within the bush and said, “Moses, Moses!” And Moses said, “Here I am.” <a name="3:5">3:5</a> God said, “Do not come near here. Take your sandals off your feet, for the place on which you are standing is holy ground.” <a name="3:6">3:6</a> He also said, “I am the God of your father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob.” Then Moses hid his face, because he was afraid to look at God.

<a name="3:7">3:7</a> The Lord said, “I have surely seen the affliction of my people who are in Egypt. I have heard their cry because of their taskmasters, for I know their sorrows. <a name="3:8">3:8</a> I have come down to deliver them from the hand of the Egyptians and to bring them up from that land to a land that is both good and large, to a land flowing with milk and honey, to the region of the Canaanites, Hittites, Amorites, Perizzites, Hivites, and Jebusites. <a name="3:9">3:9</a> And now, indeed, the cry of the Israelites has come to me, and I have also seen how severely the Egyptians oppress them. <a name="3:10">3:10</a> So now, go, and I will send you to Pharaoh to bring my people, the Israelites, out of Egypt.”

<a name="3:11">3:11</a> Moses said to God, “Who am I, that I should go to Pharaoh, or that I should bring the Israelites out of Egypt?” <a name="3:12">3:12</a> He replied, “Surely I will be with you, and this will be the sign to you that I have sent you: When you bring the people out of Egypt, you and they will serve God on this mountain.”

<a name="3:13">3:13</a> Moses said to God, “If I go to the Israelites and say to them, ‘The God of your fathers has sent me to you,’ and they say to me, ‘What is his name?’ — what should I say to them?”

<a name="3:14">3:14</a> God said to Moses, “I AM that I AM.” And he said, “You must say this to the Israelites, ‘I AM has sent me to you.’” <a name="3:15">3:15</a> God also said to Moses, “You must say this to the Israelites, ‘The Lord  —  the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob  —  has sent me to you. This is my name forever, and this is my memorial from generation to generation.’

<a name="3:16">3:16</a> “Go and bring together the elders of Israel and say to them, ‘The Lord, the God of your fathers, appeared to me  —  the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob — saying, “I have attended carefully to you and to what has been done to you in Egypt, <a name="3:17">3:17</a> and I have promised that I will bring you up out of the affliction of Egypt to the land of the Canaanites, Hittites, Amorites, Perizzites, Hivites, and Jebusites, to a land flowing with milk and honey.”’

<a name="3:18">3:18</a> “The elders will listen to you, and then you and the elders of Israel must go to the king of Egypt and say to him, ‘The Lord, the God of the Hebrews, has met with us. So now, let us go three days’ journey into the wilderness, so that we may sacrifice to The Lord our God.’ <a name="3:19">3:19</a> But I know that the king of Egypt will not let you go, not even under force. <a name="3:20">3:20</a> So I will extend my hand and strike Egypt with all my wonders that I will do among them, and after that he will release you.

<a name="3:21">3:21</a> “I will give this people favor with the Egyptians, so that when you depart you will not go out empty-handed. <a name="3:22">3:22</a> Every woman will ask her neighbor and the one who happens to be staying in her house for silver items, gold items, and clothing. You will put these articles on your sons and on your daughters  —  thus you will plunder Egypt!”