---
title: 13
parent: Exodus
other: x
---

## The Institution of the Passover

<a name="12:1">12:1</a> The Lord said to Moses and Aaron in the land of Egypt, <a name="12:2">12:2</a> “This month for you is to be the beginning of months; it will be your first month of the year. <a name="12:3">12:3</a> Tell all the congregation of Israel, ‘In the tenth day of this month they each must take a lamb for themselves according to the house of their fathers  —  a lamb for a house. <a name="12:4">12:4</a> If any household is too small for a lamb, the man and his neighbor who lives nearby are to take a lamb according to the number of people  —  you will make your count for the lamb according to how much each one can eat. <a name="12:5">12:5</a> Your lamb must be perfect, a male, one year old; you may take it from the sheep or from the goats. <a name="12:6">12:6</a> You must care for it until the fourteenth day of this month, and then all the congregation of the assembly of Israel will kill it between the evenings. <a name="12:7">12:7</a> They will take some of the blood and put it on the two side posts and on the lintel of the houses in which they will eat it. <a name="12:8">12:8</a> They will eat the meat the same night; they will eat it roasted over the fire with unleavened cakes and with bitter herbs. <a name="12:9">12:9</a> Do not eat it raw or boiled in water, but roast it over the fire with its head, its legs, and its entrails. <a name="12:10">12:10</a> You must leave nothing until morning, but you must burn with fire whatever remains of it until morning. <a name="12:11">12:11</a> And this is how you are to eat it  —  dressed to travel, your sandals on your feet, and your staff in your hand. You are to eat it in haste. It is the Passover of The Lord.

<a name="12:12">12:12</a> I will pass through the land of Egypt in the same night, and I will kill all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, both of humans and of animals, and on all the gods of Egypt I will execute judgment. I am The Lord. <a name="12:13">12:13</a> The blood will be a sign for you on the houses where you are, so that when I see the blood I will pass over you, and this plague will not fall on you to destroy you when I strike the land of Egypt.

<a name="12:14">12:14</a> This day will become a memorial for you, and you will celebrate it as a festival to The Lord  —  you will celebrate the feast perpetually as a lasting ordinance. <a name="12:15">12:15</a> For seven days you must eat bread made without yeast. Surely on the first day you must put away the yeast from your houses because anyone who eats leavened bread from the first day to the seventh day may be cut off from Israel.

<a name="12:16">12:16</a> And on the first day there will be a holy convocation, and on the seventh day there will be a holy convocation for you. You must do no work of any kind on them, only what every person must eat  —  that alone may be prepared for you. <a name="12:17">12:17</a> And you will keep the Feast of Unleavened Bread, because on this same day I brought your multitudes out from the land of Egypt, and so you must keep this day perpetually as a lasting ordinance. <a name="12:18">12:18</a> In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month, in the evening, you will eat unleavened bread until the twenty-first day of the month in the evening. <a name="12:19">12:19</a> For seven days leaven must not be found in your houses, for whoever eats what is leavened  —  that person will be cut off from the congregation of Israel, whether a foreigner or one born in the land. <a name="12:20">12:20</a> You will not eat anything leavened; in all the places where you live you must eat unleavened bread.”

<a name="12:21">12:21</a> Then Moses summoned the elders of Israel, and said to them, “Draw out and take small animals for yourselves according to your families, and kill the Passover animals. <a name="12:22">12:22</a> Take a bunch of hyssop, dip it in the blood that is in the basin, and apply to the lintel and the two side posts blood that is in the basin. And none of you will go out the door of his house until morning. <a name="12:23">12:23</a> For The Lord will pass through to strike Egypt; and when he sees the blood on the lintel and the two side posts, then The Lord will pass over the door, and he will not permit destroyer to enter into your houses to strike you. <a name="12:24">12:24</a> And you will observe this event as an ordinance for you and for your children forever. <a name="12:25">12:25</a> And when you enter the land that The Lord will give to you, just as he said, then you must observe this service. <a name="12:26">12:26</a> And when your children say to you, “What does this service mean to you?”  —  <a name="12:27">12:27</a> then you will say, ‘It is the sacrifice of The Lord’s Passover, when he passed over the houses of the Israelites in Egypt, when he destroyed Egypt and delivered our households.’” And the people bowed down low to the ground. <a name="12:28">12:28</a> And then the Israelites went away and did exactly as The Lord had commanded Moses and Aaron.

## The Deliverance from Egypt

<a name="12:29">12:29</a> It happened at midnight  —  The Lord struck all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, from the firstborn of Pharaoh who sat on his throne to the firstborn of the captive who was in the prison, and all the firstborn of the cattle. <a name="12:30">12:30</a> And Pharaoh got up in the night, along with all his servants and all Egypt, and there was a great cry in Egypt, for there was no house in which there was not someone dead. <a name="12:31">12:31</a> And he summoned Moses and Aaron in the night, and said, “Get up, get out from among my people, both you and your children! Go and serve The Lord as you have spoken! <a name="12:32">12:32</a> Also, take your flocks and your herds, just as you have spoken, and leave. But bless me also.”

<a name="12:33">12:33</a> And the Egyptians were urging on the people, in order to send them out of the land quickly, for they were saying, “We are all dead people!” <a name="12:34">12:34</a> And the people took their dough before it was leavened, with their kneading troughs bound up in their clothes on their shoulders. <a name="12:35">12:35</a> And the Israelites had done according to the word of Moses  —  they had asked from the Egyptians articles of silver and articles of gold, and clothing. <a name="12:36">12:36</a> The Lord gave favor to the people in the eyes of the Egyptians, and they gave them whatever they wanted, and so they plundered Egypt.

<a name="12:37">12:37</a> The Israelites journeyed from Rameses and Sukkoth. There were about six hundred thousand men on foot, besides women and children. <a name="12:38">12:38</a> And a mixed multitude also went up with them, and flocks and herds  —  a very large number of cattle. <a name="12:39">12:39</a> And they baked cakes of unleavened bread with the dough they had brought from Egypt, for it was not leavened  —  because they were thrust out of Egypt and were not able to delay, they could not prepare food for themselves either.

<a name="12:40">12:40</a> Now the length of time the Israelites lived in Egypt was four hundred thirty years. <a name="12:41">12:41</a> And at the end of the four hundred thirty years, on the same day, all the divisions of The Lord went out of the land of Egypt. <a name="12:42">12:42</a> It was a night of watching for The Lord to bring them out from the land of Egypt; and so on this night all Israel is to keep the vigil to The Lord for generations to come.

## Participation in the Passover

<a name="12:43">12:43</a> And The Lord said to Moses and Aaron, “This is the ordinance of the Passover. No foreigner may share in eating it. <a name="12:44">12:44</a> But everyone’s servant who is bought for money, after you have circumcised him, may eat it. <a name="12:45">12:45</a> A foreigner and a hired worker must not eat it. <a name="12:46">12:46</a> It must be eaten in one house; you must not carry it around outside from one house to another. And you must not break a bone of it. <a name="12:47">12:47</a> The congregation of Israel must observe it.

<a name="12:48">12:48</a> “And when a foreigner lives with you, and wants to observe the Passover to The Lord, all his males must be circumcised, and then he may come near and observe it, and he will be as one who is born in the land  —  for no uncircumcised person may eat of it. <a name="12:49">12:49</a> The same law will apply to the person who is native-born and to the foreigner who lives among you.”

<a name="12:50">12:50</a> So all the Israelites did exactly as The Lord commanded Moses and Aaron. <a name="12:51">12:51</a> And on that very day The Lord brought the Israelites out of the land of Egypt by their divisions.