---
title: 18
parent: Exodus
other: x
---

## The Advice of Jethro

<a name="18:1">18:1</a> Jethro, the priest of Midian, Moses’ father-in-law, heard about all that God had done for Moses and for his people Israel, that he had brought Israel out of Egypt.

<a name="18:2">18:2</a> Jethro, Moses’ father-in-law, had taken Zipporah, Moses’ wife, after he had sent her back, <a name="18:3">18:3</a> and her two sons, one of whom was named Gershom (for Moses had said, “I have been an alien in a foreign land”), <a name="18:4">18:4</a> and the other Eliezer (for Moses had said, “The God of my father has been my help, and delivered me from the sword of Pharaoh”).

<a name="18:5">18:5</a> And Jethro, Moses’ father-in-law, together with his sons and his wife, came to Moses in the desert where he was camping by the mountain of God. <a name="18:6">18:6</a> And he said to Moses, “I, your father-in-law Jethro, am coming to you, along with your wife and her two sons with her.” <a name="18:7">18:7</a> And Moses went out to meet his father-in-law and bowed down and kissed him; they asked each other how they were, and then they went into the tent. <a name="18:8">18:8</a> And Moses told his father-in-law all that The Lord had done to Pharaoh and to Egypt for Israel’s sake, and all the hardship that had come on them along the way, and how The Lord had delivered them.

<a name="18:9">18:9</a> Then Jethro rejoiced because of all the good that The Lord had done for Israel, whom he had delivered from the hand of Egypt. <a name="18:10">18:10</a> And Jethro said, “Blessed be The Lord who has delivered you from the hand of Egypt, and from the hand of Pharaoh, who has delivered the people from under the hand of Pharaoh! <a name="18:11">18:11</a> Now I know that The Lord is greater than all the gods, for in the thing wherein they dealt proudly against them he has destroyed them.” <a name="18:12">18:12</a> Then Jethro, Moses’ father-in-law, brought a burnt offering and sacrifices for God; and Aaron and all the elders of Israel came to eat food with the father-in-law of Moses before God.

<a name="18:13">18:13</a> And on the next day Moses sat to judge the people; and the people stood around Moses from morning until evening. <a name="18:14">18:14</a> When his father-in-law saw all that he was doing for the people, he said, “What is this that you are doing for the people? Why are you sitting by yourself, and all the people stand around you from morning till evening?”

<a name="18:15">18:15</a> And Moses said to his father-in-law, “Because the people come to me to inquire of God. <a name="18:16">18:16</a> When they have a matter, they come to me and I decide between a man and his neighbor, and I make known the decrees of God and his laws.”

<a name="18:17">18:17</a> Then Moses’ father-in-law said to him, “The thing you are doing is not good. <a name="18:18">18:18</a> You will surely wear out, both you and this people who are with you, for this is too heavy for you; you are not able to do it by yourself. <a name="18:19">18:19</a> Now listen to me, I will give you some advice, and may God be with you: You be for the people a representative to God, and bring their disputes to God. <a name="18:20">18:20</a> And warn them of the statutes and the laws, and make known to them the way in which they must walk, and the work that they must do. <a name="18:21">18:21</a> But choose from the people capable men, God-fearers, men of truth, those who hate bribes, and put them over the people as rulers of thousands, and rulers of hundreds, and rulers of fifties, and rulers of tens. <a name="18:22">18:22</a> And they will judge the people all the time, and every great issue they will bring to you, but every small issue they themselves will judge, so that you may make it easier for yourself, and they will bear the burden with you. <a name="18:23">18:23</a> If you do this thing, and God so commands you, then you will be able to endure, and all these people will be able to go to their place satisfied.”

<a name="18:24">18:24</a> So Moses listened to his father-in-law and did all that he had said. <a name="18:25">18:25</a> And Moses chose capable men from all Israel, and he made them heads over the people, rulers over thousands, rulers over hundreds, rulers over fifties, and rulers over tens. <a name="18:26">18:26</a> And they judged the people at all times; the difficult matters they would bring to Moses, but every small matter they would judge themselves.

<a name="18:27">18:27</a> Then Moses sent his father-in-law on his way, and so he went to his own land.