---
title: 25
parent: Exodus
other: x
---

## The Materials for the Sanctuary

<a name="25:1">25:1</a> The Lord spoke to Moses: <a name="25:2">25:2</a> “Tell the Israelites to take an offering for me; from every person whose heart makes him willing you are to receive my offering. <a name="25:3">25:3</a> This is the offering you are to receive from them: gold, silver, bronze, <a name="25:4">25:4</a> blue, purple, scarlet, fine linen, goat’s hair, <a name="25:5">25:5</a> ram skins dyed red, fine leather, acacia wood, <a name="25:6">25:6</a> oil for the light, spices for the anointing oil and for fragrant incense, <a name="25:7">25:7</a> onyx stones, and other gems to be set in the ephod and in the breastpiece. <a name="25:8">25:8</a> Let them make for me a sanctuary, that I may live among them. <a name="25:9">25:9</a> According to all that I am showing you — the pattern of the tabernacle and the pattern of all its furnishings  —  you must make it exactly so.

## The Ark of the Covenant

<a name="25:10">25:10</a> Let them make an ark of acacia wood  —  its length is to be three feet nine inches, its width two feet three inches, and its height two feet three inches. <a name="25:11">25:11</a> You are to overlay it with pure gold — inside and outside you must overlay it; and you are to make a surrounding border of gold over it. <a name="25:12">25:12</a> You are to cast four gold rings for it and put them on its four feet, with two rings on one side and two rings on the other side. <a name="25:13">25:13</a> You are to make poles of acacia wood, overlay them with gold, <a name="25:14">25:14</a> and put the poles into the rings at the sides of the ark in order to carry the ark with them. <a name="25:15">25:15</a> The poles must remain in the rings of the ark; they must not be removed from it. <a name="25:16">25:16</a> And you are to put into the ark the testimony that I will give to you.

<a name="25:17">25:17</a> And you are to make a propitiatory lid of pure gold; its length is to be three feet nine inches, and its width is to be two feet three inches. <a name="25:18">25:18</a> And you are to make two cherubim of gold, you are to make them of beaten work on the two ends of the propitiatory lid. <a name="25:19">25:19</a> And make one cherub on one end and one cherub on the other end; from the propitiatory lid you are to make the cherubim on the two ends. <a name="25:20">25:20</a> And the cherubim are to be spreading forth their wings upward, overshadowing the propitiatory lid with their wings, and the cherubim are to face each other, looking to the propitiatory lid. <a name="25:21">25:21</a> And you are to put the propitiatory lid on top of the ark; and in the ark you are to put the testimony I am giving you. <a name="25:22">25:22</a> And I will meet with you there, and from above the propitiatory lid, from between the cherubim that are over the ark of the testimony, I will speak with you of all that I will command you for the Israelites.

## The Table of Presence-Bread

<a name="25:23">25:23</a> And you are to make a table of acacia wood; its length is to be three feet, its width is to be one foot six inches, and its height two feet three inches. <a name="25:24">25:24</a> And you are to overlay it with pure gold; and you are to make a border of gold all around it. <a name="25:25">25:25</a> And you are to make for it a frame about three inches broad all around it, and you are to make a border for the frame of it all around. <a name="25:26">25:26</a> And you are to make four rings of gold for it, and you are to attach the rings at the four corners where its four legs are. <a name="25:27">25:27</a> The rings are to be close to the frame as places for the poles to carry the table. <a name="25:28">25:28</a> And you are to make the poles of acacia wood and overlay them with gold, so that the table may be carried with them. <a name="25:29">25:29</a> And you are to make plates for it, and ladles for it, and pitchers for it, and bowls for it for the pouring out of offerings; you are to make them of pure gold. <a name="25:30">25:30</a> And you are to set the Bread of Presence on the table before me continually.

## The Lampstand

<a name="25:31">25:31</a> And you are to make a lampstand of pure gold. The lampstand is to be made of hammered metal; its base and its shaft, its cups, its buds, and its blossoms are to be of one piece with it. <a name="25:32">25:32</a> And six branches are to extend from the sides of the lampstand, three branches of the lampstand from one side and three branches of the lampstand from the other side. <a name="25:33">25:33</a> Three cups shaped like almond flowers with buds and blossoms are to be on one branch, and three cups shaped like almond flowers with buds and blossoms are to be on the next branch, and the same for the six branches extending out from the lampstand. <a name="25:34">25:34</a> And on the lampstand there are to be four cups shaped like almond flowers with buds and blossoms <a name="25:35">25:35</a>  —  with a bud under the first two branches from it, and a bud under the next two branches from it, and a bud under the third two branches from it, according to the six branches that extend from the lampstand. <a name="25:36">25:36</a> Their buds and their branches will be one piece, all of it one piece hammered out of pure gold.

<a name="25:37">25:37</a> And you are to make its seven lamps, and then put its seven lamps up on it, so that it will give light to the area in front of it. <a name="25:38">25:38</a> And its trimmers and its trays are to be of pure gold. <a name="25:39">25:39</a> About seventy-five pounds of pure gold is to be used for it and for all these utensils. <a name="25:40">25:40</a> Now be sure to make them according to the pattern you were shown on the mountain.