---
title: 27
parent: Exodus
other: x
---

## The Tabernacle

<a name="26:1">26:1</a> And you are to make the tabernacle with ten curtains of finely twined linen, and blue and purple and scarlet; you are to make them with cherubim, the work of an artistic designer. <a name="26:2">26:2</a> The length of each curtain is to be forty-two feet and the width of each curtain is to be six feet  —  one measure for every one of the curtains. <a name="26:3">26:3</a> Five curtains are to be joined together, one to another, and the other five curtains are to be joined together, one to another. <a name="26:4">26:4</a> And you are to make loops of blue material along the edge of the end curtain in one set, and in the same way you are to make loops in the outer edge of the other curtain in the second set. <a name="26:5">26:5</a> You are to make fifty loops in the one curtain, and you are to make fifty loops on the end curtain which is on the second set, so that the loops may take hold of one another. <a name="26:6">26:6</a> Then you are to make fifty gold clasps, and join the curtains together with the clasps, so that the tabernacle is a unit.

<a name="26:7">26:7</a> And you are to make curtains of goats’ hair for a tent over the tabernacle; you are to make eleven curtains. <a name="26:8">26:8</a> The length of each curtain is to be forty-five feet, and the width of each curtain is to be six feet  —  one measure for the eleven curtains. <a name="26:9">26:9</a> And you are to join five curtains together by themselves, and the six curtains by themselves. And you are to double over the sixth curtain at the front of the tent. <a name="26:10">26:10</a> And you are to make fifty loops along the edge of the end curtain in one set, and fifty loops along the edge of the curtain that joins the second set. <a name="26:11">26:11</a> Then you are to make fifty bronze clasps and put the clasps into the loops and join the tent together so that it is a unit. <a name="26:12">26:12</a> Now the part that remains of the curtains of the tent, the half curtain that remains, you are to let hang over at the backside of the tabernacle. <a name="26:13">26:13</a> And the foot and a half on the one side, and the foot and a half on the other side, of what remains in the length of the curtains of the tent, will hang over the sides of the tabernacle, on this side and that side, to cover it.

<a name="26:14">26:14</a> And you are to make a covering for the tent of rams’ skins dyed red, and over that a covering of hides of fine leather.

<a name="26:15">26:15</a> And you are to make the frames for the tabernacle out of acacia wood as uprights. <a name="26:16">26:16</a> Each frame is to be fifteen feet long, and each frame is to be two feet three inches wide, <a name="26:17">26:17</a> with two projections for each board, set in order one against another. You are to make all the frames of the tabernacle in this way. <a name="26:18">26:18</a> And you are to make the frames for the tabernacle: twenty frames for the south side, <a name="26:19">26:19</a> and you are to make forty silver bases to go under the twenty frames, two bases under one frame for its two projections, and likewise two bases under each frame for its two projections; <a name="26:20">26:20</a> and for the second side of the tabernacle, the north side, twenty frames, <a name="26:21">26:21</a> and their forty silver bases, two bases under the one frame, and two bases under each frame. <a name="26:22">26:22</a> And for the back of the tabernacle that faces west you will make six frames. <a name="26:23">26:23</a> And you are to make two frames for the corners of the tabernacle on the two back sides. <a name="26:24">26:24</a> At the two corners they must be doubled at the lower end and finished together at the top in one ring. So it will be for both corners. <a name="26:25">26:25</a> So there are to be eight frames and their silver bases, sixteen bases, two bases under one frame, and two bases under each frame.

<a name="26:26">26:26</a> And you are to make bars out of acacia wood, five for the frames on one side of the tabernacle, <a name="26:27">26:27</a> and five bars for the frames on the second side, and five bars for the frames on the back side facing west. <a name="26:28">26:28</a> And the middle bar in the midst of the frames will reach from end to end. <a name="26:29">26:29</a> And the frames you are to overlay with gold, and you are to make their rings of gold to provide places for the bars, and you are to overlay the bars with gold. <a name="26:30">26:30</a> And you are to set up the tabernacle according to the plan that you were shown on the mountain.

<a name="26:31">26:31</a> And you are to make a veil of blue, purple, and scarlet yarn and finely twined linen; it is to be made with cherubim, the work of an artistic designer. <a name="26:32">26:32</a> And you are to hang it with gold hooks on four posts of acacia wood overlaid with gold, set in four silver bases. <a name="26:33">26:33</a> And you are to hang the veil under the clasps, and bring the ark of the testimony in there behind the veil. The veil will make a division for you between the Holy Place and the Holy of Holies. <a name="26:34">26:34</a> And you are to put the propitiatory lid on the ark of the testimony in the Holy of Holies. <a name="26:35">26:35</a> And you are to put the table outside the veil, and the lampstand opposite the table on the side of the tabernacle facing south; and you are to place the table on the north side. <a name="26:36">26:36</a> And you are to make a hanging for the entrance of the tent of blue and purple and scarlet yarn and finely twined linen, the work of an embroiderer. <a name="26:37">26:37</a> And you are to make for the hanging five posts of acacia wood, and overlay them with gold, and their hooks will be gold; and you are to cast five bronze bases for them.