---
title: 28
parent: Exodus
other: x
---

## The Altar

<a name="27:1">27:1</a> And you are to make the altar of acacia wood, seven feet six inches long, and seven feet six inches wide; it is to be square. And it is to be four feet six inches high. <a name="27:2">27:2</a> And you are to make its four horns on its four corners; its horns will be part of it. And you are to overlay it with bronze. <a name="27:3">27:3</a> And you are to make its pots for the ashes, and its shovels, and tossing bowls, meat hooks, and fire pans  —  you are to make all its utensils of bronze. <a name="27:4">27:4</a> And you are to make a grating for it, a network of bronze; and you are to make on the network four bronze rings at the four corners of it. <a name="27:5">27:5</a> And you are to put it under the ledge of the altar at the bottom, so that the network will come halfway up the altar. <a name="27:6">27:6</a> And you are to make poles for the altar, poles of acacia wood, and you are to overlay them with bronze.

<a name="27:7">27:7</a> And the poles are to be put into the rings; and the poles are to be on two sides of the altar when carrying it. <a name="27:8">27:8</a> You are to make the altar hollow, out of boards. Just as it was shown you on the mountain, so they must make it.

## The Courtyard

<a name="27:9">27:9</a> And you are to make the courtyard of the tabernacle. For the south side there are to be hangings for the courtyard of fine twined linen, one hundred fifty feet long for one side, <a name="27:10">27:10</a> with its twenty posts and their twenty bronze bases, with silver hooks and bands on the posts. <a name="27:11">27:11</a> And likewise for its length on the north side, there are to be hangings for one hundred fifty feet, with its twenty posts and their twenty bronze bases, with silver hooks and bands on the posts. <a name="27:12">27:12</a> And the width of the court on the west side is to be seventy-five feet with hangings, with their ten posts and their ten bases. <a name="27:13">27:13</a> And the width of the court on the east side, toward the sunrise, is to be seventy-five feet. <a name="27:14">27:14</a> The hangings of one side are to be twenty-two and a half feet long, with their three posts and their three bases. <a name="27:15">27:15</a> And on the second side there are to be hangings twenty-two and a half feet long, with their three posts and their three bases. <a name="27:16">27:16</a> And for the gate of the courtyard there is to be a curtain of thirty feet, of blue and purple and scarlet yarn and finely twined linen, the work of an embroiderer, with their four posts and their four bases. <a name="27:17">27:17</a> All the posts around the courtyard are to have silver bands; their hooks are to be silver, and their bases bronze. <a name="27:18">27:18</a> The length of the courtyard is to be one hundred fifty feet, and the width seventy-five feet in the west and in the east, and the height of the fine twined linen hangings is to be seven and a half feet, with their bronze bases. <a name="27:19">27:19</a> All the furnishings of the tabernacle used in all its service, even all its tent pins and all the tent pins of the courtyard, are to be of bronze.

## Offering the Oil

<a name="27:20">27:20</a> And you are to command the Israelites that they bring to you pure oil of pressed olives for the light, so that the lamps will burn regularly. <a name="27:21">27:21</a> In the tent of meeting outside the veil that is before the testimony, Aaron and his sons are to arrange it from evening to morning before The Lord. This is to be a lasting ordinance among the Israelites for generations to come.