---
title: 28
parent: Exodus
other: x
---

## The Clothing of the Priests

<a name="28:1">28:1</a> And you, bring near to you your brother Aaron and his sons with him from among the Israelites, that they may minister as my priests — Aaron, Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar, Aaron’s sons. <a name="28:2">28:2</a> You must make holy garments for your brother Aaron, for glory and for beauty. <a name="28:3">28:3</a> You are to speak to all who are specially skilled, whom I have filled with the spirit of wisdom, so that they may make Aaron’s garments to sanctify him to minister as my priest. <a name="28:4">28:4</a> Now these are the garments that they are to make: a breastpiece, an ephod, a robe, a fitted tunic, a turban, and a sash. They are to make holy garments for your brother Aaron and for his sons, that they may minister as my priests. <a name="28:5">28:5</a> The artisans are to receive the gold, blue, purple, scarlet, and fine linen.

<a name="28:6">28:6</a> They are to make the ephod of gold, blue, purple, scarlet, and fine twined linen, the work of an artistic designer. <a name="28:7">28:7</a> It is to have two shoulder pieces attached to two of its corners, so it can be joined together. <a name="28:8">28:8</a> And the artistically woven waistband of the ephod that is on it is to be like it, of one piece with the ephod, of gold, blue, purple, scarlet, and fine twined linen.

<a name="28:9">28:9</a> And you are to take two onyx stones, and engrave on them the names of the sons of Israel, <a name="28:10">28:10</a> six of their names on one stone, and the six remaining names on the second stone, according to the order of their birth. <a name="28:11">28:11</a> You are to engrave the two stones with the names of the sons of Israel with the work of an engraver in stone, like the engravings of a seal; you are to make them to be set in gold filigree settings. <a name="28:12">28:12</a> And you are to put the two stones on the shoulders of the ephod, stones of memorial for the sons of Israel; and Aaron will bear their names before The Lord on his two shoulders for a memorial. <a name="28:13">28:13</a> And you are to make filigree settings of gold, <a name="28:14">28:14</a> and two braided chains of pure gold, like a cord, and attach the chains to the settings.

<a name="28:15">28:15</a> And you are to make a breastpiece of decision, the work of an artistic designer; you are to make it after the manner of the ephod; you are to make it of gold, of blue, of purple, of scarlet, and of fine twined linen. <a name="28:16">28:16</a> It is to be square when doubled, nine inches long and nine inches wide. <a name="28:17">28:17</a> And you are to set in it a setting for stones, four rows of stones, a row of ruby, a topaz, and a beryl — the first row; <a name="28:18">28:18</a> and the second row, a turquoise, a sapphire, and an emerald; <a name="28:19">28:19</a> and the third row, a jacinth, an agate, and an amethyst; <a name="28:20">28:20</a> and the fourth row, a chrysolite, an onyx, and a jasper. They are to be enclosed in gold in their filigree settings. <a name="28:21">28:21</a> And the stones are to be for the names of the sons of Israel, twelve, according to the number of their names. Each name according to the twelve tribes is to be like the engravings of a seal.

<a name="28:22">28:22</a> And you are to make for the breastpiece braided chains like cords of pure gold. <a name="28:23">28:23</a> And you are to make for the breastpiece two gold rings, and you are to attach the two rings to the upper two ends of the breastpiece. <a name="28:24">28:24</a> And you are to attach the two gold chains to the two rings at the ends of the breastpiece; <a name="28:25">28:25</a> and the other two ends of the two chains you will attach to the two settings, and you are to attach them to the shoulder pieces of the ephod at the front of it. <a name="28:26">28:26</a> And you are to make two rings of gold, and put them on the other two ends of the breastpiece, on its edge that is on the inner side of the ephod. <a name="28:27">28:27</a> And you are to make two more gold rings and attach them to the bottom of the two shoulder pieces on the front of the ephod, close to the juncture above the waistband of the ephod. <a name="28:28">28:28</a> And they are to tie the breastpiece by its rings to the rings of the ephod by blue cord, so that it may be above the waistband of the ephod, and so that the breastpiece will not be loose from the ephod. <a name="28:29">28:29</a> And Aaron will bear the names of the sons of Israel in the breastpiece of decision on his heart, when he goes into the holy place, for a memorial before The Lord continually.

<a name="28:30">28:30</a> And you are to put into the breastpiece of decision the Urim and the Thummim; and they are to be on Aaron’s heart when he goes in before The Lord. And Aaron is to bear the judgment of the Israelites on his heart before The Lord continually.

<a name="28:31">28:31</a> And you are to make the robe of the ephod completely blue. <a name="28:32">28:32</a> And there is to be an opening in its top in the center of it. There is to be an edge all around the opening of it, the work of a weaver, like the opening of a collar, so that it cannot be torn. <a name="28:33">28:33</a> And you are to make pomegranates of blue and of purple and of scarlet all around its hem; and bells of gold between them all around. <a name="28:34">28:34</a> The pattern is to be a golden bell and a pomegranate, a golden bell and a pomegranate, all around the hem of the robe. <a name="28:35">28:35</a> And the robe is to be on Aaron as he ministers, and his sound will be heard when he enters the Holy Place before The Lord and when he leaves, so that he does not die.

<a name="28:36">28:36</a> And you are to make a plate of pure gold and engrave on it after the fashion of the engravings of a seal: “Holiness to The Lord.” <a name="28:37">28:37</a> And you are to attach to it a blue cord so that it may be on the turban; it is to be on the front of the turban. <a name="28:38">28:38</a> And it is to be on Aaron’s forehead; and Aaron will bear the iniquity of the holy things, which the Israelites are to sanctify by all their holy gifts; and it will always be on his forehead, for their acceptance before The Lord. <a name="28:39">28:39</a> You are to weave the tunic of fine linen and make the turban of fine linen, and the sash you are to make the work of an embroiderer.

<a name="28:40">28:40</a> And for Aaron’s sons you are to make tunics; and you are to make sashes for them, and you are to make headbands for them, for glory and for beauty.

<a name="28:41">28:41</a> And you are to clothe them, your brother Aaron and his sons with him. You are to anoint them and ordain them, and sanctify them so that they may minister as my priests. <a name="28:42">28:42</a> And make for them linen undergarments to cover the body; they must cover from the loins to the thighs. <a name="28:43">28:43</a> And they must be on Aaron and his sons when they go in to the tent of meeting, or when they approach the altar to minister in the holy place, so that they bear no iniquity and die. It is to be a perpetual ordinance for him and for his descendants after him.