---
title: 32
parent: Exodus
other: x
---

## Willing Artisans

<a name="31:1">31:1</a> The Lord spoke to Moses: <a name="31:2">31:2</a> “See, I have called by name Bezalel son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah, <a name="31:3">31:3</a> and I have filled him with the Spirit of God in skill, in understanding, in knowledge, and in all kinds of workmanship, <a name="31:4">31:4</a> to make artistic designs for work with gold, with silver, and with bronze, <a name="31:5">31:5</a> and with cutting and setting stone, and with cutting wood, to work in every kind of craftsmanship. <a name="31:6">31:6</a> Moreover, I have also given him Oholiab son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan; and in the hearts of all the specially skilled I have put wisdom, that they might make everything I have commanded you: <a name="31:7">31:7</a> the tent of meeting, the ark of the testimony, the place of propitiation that is on it, all the furnishings of the tent, <a name="31:8">31:8</a> the table with its utensils, the pure lampstand with all its accessories, the altar of incense, <a name="31:9">31:9</a> the altar of burnt offering with all its utensils, the laver with its base, <a name="31:10">31:10</a> and also the woven garments, the holy garments for Aaron the priest, and the garments for his sons, to minister as priests, <a name="31:11">31:11</a> the anointing oil, and sweet incense for the holy place, according to all that I have commanded them.

## Sabbath Observance

<a name="31:12">31:12</a> The Lord said to Moses, <a name="31:13">31:13</a> “Tell the Israelites, ‘Surely you must keep my Sabbaths, for it is a sign between me and you throughout your generations, that you may know that I am The Lord who sanctifies you. <a name="31:14">31:14</a> So you must keep the Sabbath, for it is holy for you. Everyone who defiles it must surely be put to death; indeed, anyone who does any work on it, then that life will be cut off from among his people. <a name="31:15">31:15</a> Six days work may be done, but on the seventh day is a Sabbath of complete rest, holy to The Lord; anyone who does work on the seventh day must surely be put to death. <a name="31:16">31:16</a> And the Israelites must keep the Sabbath to observe the Sabbath throughout their generations as a perpetual covenant. <a name="31:17">31:17</a> It is a sign between me and the Israelites forever; for in six days The Lord made the heavens and the earth, and on the seventh day he rested and was refreshed.”

<a name="31:18">31:18</a> And he gave to Moses two tablets of testimony when he had finished speaking with him on Mount Sinai, tablets of stone written with the finger of God.