---
title: 38
parent: Exodus
other: x
---

## The Making of the Ark

<a name="37:1">37:1</a> And Bezalel made the ark of acacia wood; its length was three feet nine inches, its width was two feet three inches, and its height was two feet three inches. <a name="37:2">37:2</a> And he overlaid it with pure gold, inside and outside. Then he made for it a gold border all around it. <a name="37:3">37:3</a> And he cast for it four gold rings to be fastened at its four corners, with two rings on its one side, and two rings on its second side. <a name="37:4">37:4</a> And he made poles of acacia wood, and overlaid them with gold. <a name="37:5">37:5</a> And he put the poles into the rings at the sides of the ark, in order to carry the ark.

<a name="37:6">37:6</a> He also made a propitiatory lid of pure gold; its length was three feet nine inches and its width was two feet three inches. <a name="37:7">37:7</a> And he made two cherubim of gold; he made them of hammered metal on the two ends of the propitiatory lid, <a name="37:8">37:8</a> one cherub on one end and one cherub on the other end. He made the cherubim from the propitiatory lid on its two ends. <a name="37:9">37:9</a> And the cherubim were spreading their wings upward, overshadowing the propitiatory lid with their wings. And the cherubim faced each other; they were looking toward the propitiatory lid.

## The Making of the Table

<a name="37:10">37:10</a> And he made the table of acacia wood; its length was three feet, its width was one foot six inches, and its height was two feet three inches. <a name="37:11">37:11</a> And he overlaid it with pure gold; and he made for it a gold border all around it. <a name="37:12">37:12</a> He also made a frame for it about three inches wide all around it, and he made a gold border for its frame all around. <a name="37:13">37:13</a> Then he cast four gold rings for it, and he attached the rings at the four corners where its four legs were. <a name="37:14">37:14</a> The rings were close to the frame to provide places for the poles to carry the table. <a name="37:15">37:15</a> And he made the poles of acacia wood and overlaid them with gold, to carry the table. <a name="37:16">37:16</a> And he made the vessels which were on the table out of pure gold, its plates, its ladles, its pitchers and its bowls, to be used in pouring out offerings.

## The Making of the Lampstand

<a name="37:17">37:17</a> And he made the lampstand of pure gold. He made the lampstand of hammered metal; its base and its shaft, its cups, its buds, and its blossoms were from the same piece. <a name="37:18">37:18</a> And six branches were extending from its sides, three branches of the lampstand from the one side of it, and three branches of the lampstand from the second side of it. <a name="37:19">37:19</a> Three cups shaped like flowers with buds and blossoms were on one branch, and three cups shaped like almond flowers with buds and blossoms were on the next branch, and the same for all six branches that were extending from the lampstand. <a name="37:20">37:20</a> And on the lampstand there were four cups shaped like almond flowers with buds and blossoms, <a name="37:21">37:21</a> with a bud under the first two branches from it, and a bud under the next two branches from it, and a bud under the third two branches from it; according to the six branches that extended from it. <a name="37:22">37:22</a> Their buds and their branches were of one piece; all of it was one hammered piece of pure gold. <a name="37:23">37:23</a> And he made seven lamps, as well as its trimmers and trays, of pure gold. <a name="37:24">37:24</a> He made the lampstand and all its accessories with seventy-five pounds of pure gold.

## The Making of the Altar of Incense

<a name="37:25">37:25</a> And he made the incense altar of acacia wood. Its length was a foot and a half and its width a foot and a half  —  a square  —  and its height was three feet. Its horns were of one piece with it. <a name="37:26">37:26</a> And he overlaid it with pure gold  —  its top, its four walls, and its horns — and he made a surrounding border of gold for it. <a name="37:27">37:27</a> He also made two gold rings for it under its border, on its two flanks, on its two sides, as places for poles to carry it with. <a name="37:28">37:28</a> And he made the poles of acacia wood and overlaid them with gold.

<a name="37:29">37:29</a> He made the sacred anointing oil and the pure fragrant incense, the work of a perfumer.