---
title: 38
parent: Exodus
other: x
---

## The Making of the Altar of Burnt Offering

<a name="38:1">38:1</a> And he made the altar of burnt offering of acacia wood. Its length was seven and a half feet, its width was seven and a half feet  —  it was square  —  and its height was four and a half feet. <a name="38:2">38:2</a> He made its horns at its four corners; its horns were part of it. And he overlaid it with bronze. <a name="38:3">38:3</a> Then he made all the utensils of the altar  —  pots, shovels, tossing-bowls, meat hooks, and fire pans  —  he made all its utensils of bronze. <a name="38:4">38:4</a> And he made for the altar a grating, a network of bronze, to be under its ledge, halfway up from the bottom. <a name="38:5">38:5</a> He cast four rings for the four corners of the bronze grating, to provide places for the poles. <a name="38:6">38:6</a> And he made the poles of acacia wood and overlaid them with bronze. <a name="38:7">38:7</a> Then he put the poles into the rings at the side of the altar, with which to carry it. And he made the altar hollow, out of boards.

<a name="38:8">38:8</a> And he made the laver of bronze and its pedestal of bronze, from the mirrors of the women who served at the entrance of the tent of meeting.

## The Construction of the Courtyard

<a name="38:9">38:9</a> Then he made the courtyard. On the south side the hangings of the courtyard were of fine twined linen, one hundred fifty feet long, <a name="38:10">38:10</a> with their twenty posts and their twenty bronze bases, and with silver hooks and their bands on the posts. <a name="38:11">38:11</a> And for the north side the hangings were one hundred fifty feet, with their twenty posts and their twenty bronze bases, and with silver hooks and their bands on the posts.

<a name="38:12">38:12</a> And for the west side there were hangings seventy-five feet long, with their ten posts and their ten bases; and with silver hooks and their bands on the posts. <a name="38:13">38:13</a> And for the east side, toward the sunrise, it was seventy-five feet wide. <a name="38:14">38:14</a> The hangings on one side were twenty-two and a half feet long, with their three posts and their three bases. <a name="38:15">38:15</a> And for the second side of the gate of the courtyard, on this hand and that, the hangings were twenty-two and a half feet long, with their three posts and their three bases. <a name="38:16">38:16</a> All the hangings around the courtyard were of finely twined linen. <a name="38:17">38:17</a> The bases for the posts were bronze. And the hooks of the posts and their bands were silver, and their tops were overlaid with silver, and all the posts of the courtyard had silver bands. <a name="38:18">38:18</a> And the curtain for the gate of the courtyard was of blue, purple, and scarlet yarn and finely twined linen, the work of an embroiderer. It was thirty feet long, and like the hangings in the courtyard, it was seven and a half feet high, <a name="38:19">38:19</a> with their four posts and their four bronze bases. Their hooks and their bands were silver, and their tops were overlaid with silver. <a name="38:20">38:20</a> And all the tent pins of the tabernacle and of the courtyard all around were bronze.

## The Materials of the Construction

<a name="38:21">38:21</a> This is the inventory of the tabernacle, the tabernacle of the testimony, which was counted at the instruction of Moses, being the work of the Levites under the direction of Ithamar, son of Aaron the priest. <a name="38:22">38:22</a> Now Bezalel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah, made everything that The Lord had commanded Moses; <a name="38:23">38:23</a> and with him was Oholiab son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan, an artisan, and a designer, and an embroiderer in blue, purple, and scarlet yarn and fine linen.

<a name="38:24">38:24</a> All the gold that was used for the work, in all the work of the sanctuary, namely the gold of the wave offering, was twenty-nine talents and seven hundred thirty shekels, according to the sanctuary shekel.

<a name="38:25">38:25</a> And the silver of those who were numbered of the community was one hundred talents and 1,775 shekels, according to the sanctuary shekel, <a name="38:26">38:26</a> one beka per person, that is, a half shekel, according to the sanctuary shekel, for every one who crossed over to those numbered, from twenty years old or older, for a number of 603,550. <a name="38:27">38:27</a> The one hundred talents of silver were used for casting the bases of the sanctuary, and the bases of the veil  —  one hundred bases for one hundred talents, one talent per base. <a name="38:28">38:28</a> From the 1,775 shekels he made hooks for the posts, and overlaid their tops, and made bands for them.

<a name="38:29">38:29</a> And the bronze of the wave offering was seventy talents and 2,400 shekels. <a name="38:30">38:30</a> And with it he made the bases for the door of the tent of meeting, and the bronze altar, and the bronze grating for it, and all the utensils of the altar, <a name="38:31">38:31</a> and the bases for the courtyard all around, and the bases for the gate of the courtyard, and all the tent pins of the tabernacle, and all the tent pins of the courtyard all around.