---
title: 39
parent: Exodus
other: x
---

## The Making of the Priestly Garments

<a name="39:1">39:1</a> And from the blue, purple, and scarlet yarn they made woven garments for serving in the sanctuary; they made holy garments that were for Aaron, just as The Lord had commanded Moses.

## The Ephod

<a name="39:2">39:2</a> He made the ephod of gold, blue, purple, scarlet, and finely twined linen. <a name="39:3">39:3</a> And they hammered the gold into thin sheets, and cut it into narrow strips, to weave them into the blue, purple, and scarlet yarn, and into the fine linen, the work of an artistic designer. <a name="39:4">39:4</a> They made shoulder pieces for it, attached to two of its corners, so it could be joined together. <a name="39:5">39:5</a> And the artistically woven waistband of the ephod that was on it was like it, of one piece with it, of gold, blue, purple, and scarlet yarn and finely twined linen, just as The Lord had commanded Moses.

<a name="39:6">39:6</a> And they set the onyx stones in gold filigree settings, engraved as with the engravings of a seal with the names of the sons of Israel. <a name="39:7">39:7</a> And he put them on the shoulder pieces of the ephod as stones of memorial for the sons of Israel, just as The Lord had commanded Moses.

## The Breastpiece of Decision

<a name="39:8">39:8</a> Then he made the breastpiece, the work of an artistic designer, in the same fashion as the ephod, of gold, blue, purple, and scarlet yarn and finely twined linen. <a name="39:9">39:9</a> It was square  —  they made the breastpiece doubled, nine inches long and nine inches wide when doubled. <a name="39:10">39:10</a> And they set on it four rows of stones: a row of a ruby, a topaz, and a beryl  —  the first row; <a name="39:11">39:11</a> and the second row, a turquoise, a sapphire, and an emerald; <a name="39:12">39:12</a> and the third row, a jacinth, an agate, and an amethyst; <a name="39:13">39:13</a> and the fourth row, a chrysolite, an onyx, and a jasper. They were enclosed in gold filigree settings. <a name="39:14">39:14</a> And the stones were for the names of the sons of Israel, twelve, according to the number of their names, each name according to the twelve tribes was like the engraving of a seal.

<a name="39:15">39:15</a> And they made for the breastpiece braided chains like cords of pure gold. <a name="39:16">39:16</a> And they made two gold filigree settings and two gold rings, and they attached the two rings to the upper two ends of the breastpiece. <a name="39:17">39:17</a> And they attached the two gold chains to the rings at the ends of the breastpiece, <a name="39:18">39:18</a> and the other two ends of the two chains they attached to the two settings, and they attached them to the shoulder pieces of the ephod at the front of it. <a name="39:19">39:19</a> And they made two rings of gold, and put them on the other two ends of the breastpiece on its edge, which is on the inner side of the ephod. <a name="39:20">39:20</a> And they made two more gold rings and attached them to the bottom of the two shoulder pieces on the front of the ephod, close to the juncture above the waistband of the ephod. <a name="39:21">39:21</a> And they tied the breastpiece by its rings to the rings of the ephod by blue cord, so that it was above the waistband of the ephod, so that the breastpiece would not be loose from the ephod, just as The Lord had commanded Moses.

## The Other Garments

<a name="39:22">39:22</a> And he made the robe of the ephod completely blue, the work of a weaver. <a name="39:23">39:23</a> And there was an opening in the center of the robe, like the opening of a collar, with an edge all around the opening so that it could not be torn. <a name="39:24">39:24</a> And they made around the hem of the robe pomegranates of blue, purple, and scarlet yarn and twined linen. <a name="39:25">39:25</a> And they made bells of pure gold, and attached the bells between the pomegranates around the hem of the robe between the pomegranates. <a name="39:26">39:26</a> There was a bell and a pomegranate, a bell and a pomegranate, all around the hem of the robe, to be used in ministering, just as The Lord had commanded Moses.

<a name="39:27">39:27</a> And they made tunics of fine linen for Aaron and for his sons, the work of a weaver, <a name="39:28">39:28</a> and the turban of fine linen, the linen headbands, and the undergarments of fine twined linen. <a name="39:29">39:29</a> And the sash was of fine twined linen and blue, purple, and scarlet yarn, the work of an embroiderer, just as The Lord had commanded Moses. <a name="39:30">39:30</a> And they made a plate, the holy diadem, of pure gold, and they wrote on it an inscription, after the fashion of the engravings of a seal, “Holiness to The Lord.” <a name="39:31">39:31</a> Then they attached to it a blue cord, to attach it to the turban above, just as The Lord had commanded Moses.

## Moses Inspects the Sanctuary

<a name="39:32">39:32</a> So all the work of the tabernacle, the tent of meeting, was completed. And the Israelites did according to all that The Lord had commanded Moses  —  they did it exactly so. <a name="39:33">39:33</a> And they brought the tabernacle to Moses, the tent and all its furnishings, clasps, frames, bars, posts, and bases; <a name="39:34">39:34</a> and the coverings of rams’ skins dyed red, the covering of fine leather, and the protecting veil; <a name="39:35">39:35</a> the ark of the testimony and its poles, and the propitiatory lid; <a name="39:36">39:36</a> the table, all its utensils, and the bread of the Presence; <a name="39:37">39:37</a> the pure lampstand, its lamps, even the lamps set in order, and all its accessories, and oil for the light; <a name="39:38">39:38</a> and the gold altar, and the anointing oil, and the fragrant incense; and the curtain for the entrance to the tent; <a name="39:39">39:39</a> the bronze altar and its bronze grating, its poles, and all its utensils; the basin with its pedestal; <a name="39:40">39:40</a> the hangings of the courtyard, its posts and its bases, and the curtain for the gateway of the courtyard, its ropes and its tent pins, and all the furnishings of the service of the tabernacle, for the tent of meeting; <a name="39:41">39:41</a> the woven garments for serving in the sanctuary, the holy garments for Aaron the priest, and the garments for his sons to minister as priests.

<a name="39:42">39:42</a> According to all that The Lord had commanded Moses, so the Israelites did all the work. <a name="39:43">39:43</a> Moses saw all the work  —  and they had done it just as The Lord had commanded  —  they had done it exactly  —  and Moses blessed them.