---
title: 24
parent: Luke
other: x
---

## The Resurrection

<a name="24:1">24:1</a> Now on the first day of the week, at early dawn, the women went to the tomb, taking the aromatic spices they had prepared. <a name="24:2">24:2</a> They found that the stone had been rolled away from the tomb, <a name="24:3">24:3</a> but when they went in, they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus. <a name="24:4">24:4</a> While they were perplexed about this, suddenly two men stood beside them in dazzling attire. <a name="24:5">24:5</a> The women were terribly frightened and bowed their faces to the ground, but the men said to them, “Why do you look for the living among the dead? <a name="24:6">24:6</a> He is not here, but has been raised! Remember how he told you, while he was still in Galilee, <a name="24:7">24:7</a> that the Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men, and be crucified, and on the third day rise again.” <a name="24:8">24:8</a> Then the women remembered his words, <a name="24:9">24:9</a> and when they returned from the tomb they told all these things to the eleven and to all the rest. <a name="24:10">24:10</a> Now it was Mary Magdalene, Joanna, Mary the mother of James, and the other women with them who told these things to the apostles. <a name="24:11">24:11</a> But these words seemed like pure nonsense to them, and they did not believe them. <a name="24:12">24:12</a> But Peter got up and ran to the tomb. He bent down and saw only the strips of linen cloth; then he went home, wondering what had happened.

## Jesus Walks the Road to Emmaus

<a name="24:13">24:13</a> Now that very day two of them were on their way to a village called Emmaus, about seven miles from Jerusalem. <a name="24:14">24:14</a> They were talking to each other about all the things that had happened. <a name="24:15">24:15</a> While they were talking and debating these things, Jesus himself approached and began to accompany them <a name="24:16">24:16</a> (but their eyes were kept from recognizing him). <a name="24:17">24:17</a> Then he said to them, “What are these matters you are discussing so intently as you walk along?” And they stood still, looking sad. <a name="24:18">24:18</a> Then one of them, named Cleopas, answered him, “Are you the only visitor to Jerusalem who doesn’t know the things that have happened there in these days?” <a name="24:19">24:19</a> He said to them, “What things?” “The things concerning Jesus the Nazarene,” they replied, “a man who, with his powerful deeds and words, proved to be a prophet before God and all the people; <a name="24:20">24:20</a> and how our chief priests and rulers handed him over to be condemned to death, and crucified him. <a name="24:21">24:21</a> But we had hoped that he was the one who was going to redeem Israel. Not only this, but it is now the third day since these things happened. <a name="24:22">24:22</a> Furthermore, some women of our group amazed us. They were at the tomb early this morning, <a name="24:23">24:23</a> and when they did not find his body, they came back and said they had seen a vision of angels, who said he was alive. <a name="24:24">24:24</a> Then some of those who were with us went to the tomb, and found it just as the women had said, but they did not see him.” 

<a name="24:25">24:25</a> So he said to them, “You foolish people — how slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken! <a name="24:26">24:26</a> Wasn’t it necessary for the Christ to suffer these things and enter into his glory?” <a name="24:27">24:27</a> Then beginning with Moses and all the prophets, he interpreted to them the things written about himself in all the scriptures.

<a name="24:28">24:28</a> So they approached the village where they were going. He acted as though he wanted to go farther, <a name="24:29">24:29</a> but they urged him, “Stay with us, because it is getting toward evening and the day is almost done.” So he went in to stay with them.

<a name="24:30">24:30</a> When he had taken his place at the table with them, he took the bread, blessed and broke it, and gave it to them. <a name="24:31">24:31</a> At this point their eyes were opened and they recognized him. Then he vanished out of their sight. <a name="24:32">24:32</a> They said to each other, “Didn’t our hearts burn within us while he was speaking with us on the road, while he was explaining the scriptures to us?” <a name="24:33">24:33</a> So they got up that very hour and returned to Jerusalem. They found the eleven and those with them gathered together <a name="24:34">24:34</a> and saying, “The Lord has really risen, and has appeared to Simon!” <a name="24:35">24:35</a> Then they told what had happened on the road, and how they recognized him when he broke the bread.

## Jesus Makes a Final Appearance

<a name="24:36">24:36</a> While they were saying these things, Jesus himself stood among them and said to them, “Peace be with you.” <a name="24:37">24:37</a> But they were startled and terrified, thinking they saw a ghost. <a name="24:38">24:38</a> Then he said to them, “Why are you frightened, and why do doubts arise in your hearts? <a name="24:39">24:39</a> Look at my hands and my feet; it’s me! Touch me and see; a ghost does not have flesh and bones like you see I have.” <a name="24:40">24:40</a> When he had said this, he showed them his hands and his feet. <a name="24:41">24:41</a> And while they still could not believe it (because of their joy) and were amazed, he said to them, “Do you have anything here to eat?” <a name="24:42">24:42</a> So they gave him a piece of broiled fish, <a name="24:43">24:43</a> and he took it and ate it in front of them.

## Jesus’ Final Commission

<a name="24:44">24:44</a> Then he said to them, “These are my words that I spoke to you while I was still with you, that everything written about me in the law of Moses and the prophets and the psalms must be fulfilled.” <a name="24:45">24:45</a> Then he opened their minds so they could understand the scriptures, <a name="24:46">24:46</a> and said to them, “Thus it stands written that the Messiah would suffer and would rise from the dead on the third day, <a name="24:47">24:47</a> and repentance for the forgiveness of sins would be proclaimed in his name to all nations, beginning from Jerusalem. <a name="24:48">24:48</a> You are witnesses of these things. <a name="24:49">24:49</a> And look, I am sending you what my Father promised. But stay in the city until you have been clothed with power from on high.”

## Jesus’ Departure

<a name="24:50">24:50</a> Then Jesus led them out as far as Bethany, and lifting up his hands, he blessed them. <a name="24:51">24:51</a> Now during the blessing he departed and was taken up into heaven. <a name="24:52">24:52</a> So they worshiped him and returned to Jerusalem with great joy, <a name="24:53">24:53</a> and were continually in the temple courts blessing God.