---
title: 14
parent: Deuteronomy
other: x
---

## The Holy and the Profane

<a name="14:1">14:1</a> You are children of the Lord your God. Do not cut yourselves or make your forehead bald for the sake of the dead. <a name="14:2">14:2</a> For you are a people holy to the Lord your God. He has chosen you to be his people, prized above all others on the face of the earth. <a name="14:3">14:3</a> You must not eat any forbidden thing. <a name="14:4">14:4</a> These are the animals you may eat: the ox, the sheep, the goat, <a name="14:5">14:5</a> the ibex, the gazelle, the deer, the wild goat, the antelope, the wild oryx, and the chamois. <a name="14:6">14:6</a> You may eat any animal that has hooves divided into two parts and that chews the cud. <a name="14:7">14:7</a> However, you may not eat the following animals among those that chew the cud or those that have divided hooves: the camel, the hare, and the rock badger. (Although they chew the cud, they do not have divided hooves and are therefore ritually impure to you). <a name="14:8">14:8</a> Also the pig is ritually impure to you; though it has divided hooves, it does not chew the cud. You may not eat their meat or even touch their remains. <a name="14:9">14:9</a> These you may eat from among water creatures: anything with fin and scale you may eat, <a name="14:10">14:10</a> but whatever does not have fin and scale you may not eat; it is ritually impure to you. <a name="14:11">14:11</a> All ritually clean birds you may eat. <a name="14:12">14:12</a> These are the ones you may not eat: the eagle, the vulture, the black vulture, <a name="14:13">14:13</a> the kite, the black kite, the dayyah after its species, <a name="14:14">14:14</a> every raven after its species, <a name="14:15">14:15</a> the ostrich, the owl, the seagull, the falcon after its species, <a name="14:16">14:16</a> the little owl, the long-eared owl, the white owl, <a name="14:17">14:17</a> the jackdaw, the carrion-vulture, the cormorant, <a name="14:18">14:18</a> the stork, the heron after its species, the hoopoe, the bat, <a name="14:19">14:19</a> and any winged thing on the ground are impure to you — they may not be eaten. <a name="14:20">14:20</a> You may eat any clean bird. <a name="14:21">14:21</a> You may not eat any corpse, though you may give it to the resident foreigner who is in your villages and he may eat it or you may sell it to a foreigner. You are a people holy to the Lord your God. Do not boil a young goat in its mother’s milk.

## The Offering of Tribute

<a name="14:22">14:22</a> You must be certain to tithe all the produce of your seed that comes from the field year after year. <a name="14:23">14:23</a> In the presence of the Lord your God you must eat from the tithe of your grain, your new wine, your olive oil, and the first-born of your herds and flocks in the place he chooses to locate his name, so that you may learn to revere the Lord your God always. <a name="14:24">14:24</a> When he blesses you, if the place where he chooses to locate his name is distant, <a name="14:25">14:25</a> you may convert the tithe into money, secure the money, and travel to the place the Lord your God chooses for himself. <a name="14:26">14:26</a> Then you may spend the money however you wish for cattle, sheep, wine, beer, or whatever you desire. You and your household may eat there in the presence of the Lord your God and enjoy it. <a name="14:27">14:27</a> As for the Levites in your villages, you must not ignore them, for they have no allotment or inheritance along with you. <a name="14:28">14:28</a> At the end of every three years you must bring all the tithe of your produce, in that very year, and you must store it up in your villages. <a name="14:29">14:29</a> Then the Levites (because they have no allotment or inheritance with you), the resident foreigners, the orphans, and the widows of your villages may come and eat their fill so that the Lord your God may bless you in all the work you do.
