---
title: 18
parent: Deuteronomy
other: x
---

## Provision for Priests and Levites

<a name="18:1">18:1</a> The Levitical priests — indeed, the entire tribe of Levi — will have no allotment or inheritance with Israel; they may eat the burnt offerings of the Lord and of his inheritance. <a name="18:2">18:2</a> They will have no inheritance in the midst of their fellow Israelites; the Lord alone is their inheritance, just as he had told them. <a name="18:3">18:3</a> This shall be the priests’ fair allotment from the people who offer sacrifices, whether bull or sheep — they must give to the priest the shoulder, the jowls, and the stomach. <a name="18:4">18:4</a> You must give them the best of your grain, new wine, and olive oil, as well as the best of your wool when you shear your flocks. <a name="18:5">18:5</a> For the Lord your God has chosen them and their sons from all your tribes to stand and serve in his name permanently. <a name="18:6">18:6</a> Suppose a Levite comes by his own free will from one of your villages, from any part of Israel where he is living, to the place the Lord chooses <a name="18:7">18:7</a> and serves in the name of the Lord his God like his fellow Levites who stand there before the Lord. <a name="18:8">18:8</a> He must eat the same share they do, despite any profits he may gain from the sale of his inheritance.

## Provision for Prophetism

<a name="18:9">18:9</a> When you enter the land the Lord your God is giving you, you must not learn the abhorrent practices of those nations. <a name="18:10">18:10</a> There must never be found among you anyone who sacrifices his son or daughter in the fire, anyone who practices divination, an omen reader, a soothsayer, a sorcerer, <a name="18:11">18:11</a> one who casts spells, one who conjures up spirits, a practitioner of the occult, or a necromancer. <a name="18:12">18:12</a> Whoever does these things is abhorrent to the Lord and because of these things the Lord your God is about to drive them out from before you. <a name="18:13">18:13</a> You must be blameless before the Lord your God. <a name="18:14">18:14</a> Those nations that you are about to dispossess listen to omen readers and diviners, but the Lord your God has not given you permission to do such things.

<a name="18:15">18:15</a> The Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet like me from among you — from your fellow Israelites; you must listen to him. <a name="18:16">18:16</a> This accords with what happened at Horeb in the day of the assembly. You asked the Lord your God: “Please do not make us hear the voice of the Lord our God any more or see this great fire any more lest we die.” <a name="18:17">18:17</a> The Lord then said to me, “What they have said is good. <a name="18:18">18:18</a> I will raise up a prophet like you for them from among their fellow Israelites. I will put my words in his mouth and he will speak to them whatever I command. <a name="18:19">18:19</a> I will personally hold responsible anyone who then pays no attention to the words that prophet speaks in my name.

<a name="18:20">18:20</a> “But if any prophet presumes to speak anything in my name that I have not authorized him to speak, or speaks in the name of other gods, that prophet must die. <a name="18:21">18:21</a> Now if you say to yourselves, ‘How can we tell that a message is not from the Lord?’ — <a name="18:22">18:22</a> whenever a prophet speaks in my name and the prediction is not fulfilled, then I have not spoken it; the prophet has presumed to speak it, so you need not fear him.”
