---
title: 27
parent: Deuteronomy
other: x
---

## The Assembly at Shechem

<a name="27:1">27:1</a> Then Moses and the elders of Israel commanded the people: Pay attention to all the commandments I am giving you today. <a name="27:2">27:2</a> When you cross the Jordan to the land the Lord your God is giving you, you must erect great stones and cover them with plaster. <a name="27:3">27:3</a> Then you must inscribe on them all the words of this law when you cross over, so that you may enter the land the Lord your God is giving you, a land flowing with milk and honey just as the Lord, the God of your ancestors, said to you. <a name="27:4">27:4</a> So when you cross the Jordan you must erect on Mount Ebal these stones about which I am commanding you today, and you must cover them with plaster. <a name="27:5">27:5</a> Then you must build an altar there to the Lord your God, an altar of stones — do not use an iron tool on them. <a name="27:6">27:6</a> You must build the altar of the Lord your God with whole stones and offer burnt offerings on it to the Lord your God. <a name="27:7">27:7</a> Also you must offer fellowship offerings and eat them there, rejoicing before the Lord your God. <a name="27:8">27:8</a> You must inscribe on the stones all the words of this law, making them clear.

<a name="27:9">27:9</a> Then Moses and the Levitical priests spoke to all Israel: “Be quiet and pay attention, Israel. Today you have become the people of the Lord your God. <a name="27:10">27:10</a> You must obey him and keep his commandments and statutes that I am giving you today.” <a name="27:11">27:11</a> Moreover, Moses commanded the people that day: <a name="27:12">27:12</a> “The following must stand to bless the people on Mount Gerizim when you cross the Jordan: Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, Joseph, and Benjamin. <a name="27:13">27:13</a> And these others must stand for the curse on Mount Ebal: Reuben, Gad, Asher, Zebulun, Dan, and Naphtali.

## The Covenant Curses

<a name="27:14">27:14</a> “The Levites will call out to every Israelite with a loud voice: <a name="27:15">27:15</a> ‘Cursed is the one who makes a carved or metal image — something abhorrent to the Lord, the work of the craftsman — and sets it in a secret place.’ Then all the people will say, ‘Amen!’ <a name="27:16">27:16</a> ‘Cursed is the one who disrespects his father and mother.’ Then all the people will say, ‘Amen!’ <a name="27:17">27:17</a> ‘Cursed is the one who moves his neighbor’s boundary marker.’ Then all the people will say, ‘Amen!’ <a name="27:18">27:18</a> ‘Cursed is the one who misleads the blind on the road.’ Then all the people will say, ‘Amen!’ <a name="27:19">27:19</a> ‘Cursed is the one who perverts justice for the resident foreigner, the orphan, and the widow.’ Then all the people will say, ‘Amen!’ <a name="27:20">27:20</a> ‘Cursed is the one who has sexual relations with his father’s former wife, for he dishonors his father.’ Then all the people will say, ‘Amen!’ <a name="27:21">27:21</a> ‘Cursed is the one who commits bestiality.’ Then all the people will say, ‘Amen!’ <a name="27:22">27:22</a> ‘Cursed is the one who has sexual relations with his sister, the daughter of either his father or mother.’ Then all the people will say, ‘Amen!’ <a name="27:23">27:23</a> ‘Cursed is the one who has sexual relations with his mother-in-law.’ Then all the people will say, ‘Amen!’ <a name="27:24">27:24</a> ‘Cursed is the one who kills his neighbor in private.’ Then all the people will say, ‘Amen!’ <a name="27:25">27:25</a> ‘Cursed is the one who takes a bribe to kill an innocent person.’ Then all the people will say, ‘Amen!’ <a name="27:26">27:26</a> ‘Cursed is the one who refuses to keep the words of this law.’ Then all the people will say, ‘Amen!’
