---
title: 33
parent: Deuteronomy
other: x
---

## Introduction to the Blessing of Moses

<a name="33:1">33:1</a> This is the blessing Moses the man of God pronounced upon the Israelites before his death. <a name="33:2">33:2</a> He said:

## A Historical Review

> The Lord came from Sinai
> and revealed himself to Israel from Seir.

> He appeared in splendor from Mount Paran,
> and came forth with ten thousand holy ones.

> With his right hand he gave a fiery law to them.

> <a name="33:3">33:3</a> Surely he loves the people;
> all your holy ones are in your power.

> And they sit at your feet,
> each receiving your words.

> <a name="33:4">33:4</a> Moses delivered to us a law,
> an inheritance for the assembly of Jacob.

> <a name="33:5">33:5</a> The Lord was king over Jeshurun,
> when the leaders of the people assembled,
> the tribes of Israel together.

## Blessing on Reuben

> <a name="33:6">33:6</a> May Reuben live and not die,
> and may his people multiply.

## Blessing on Judah

<a name="33:7">33:7</a> And this is the blessing to Judah. He said,

> Listen, O Lord, to Judah’s voice,
> and bring him to his people.

> May his power be great,
> and may you help him against his foes.

## Blessing on Levi

<a name="33:8">33:8</a> Of Levi he said:

> Your Thummim and Urim belong to your godly one,
> whose authority you challenged at Massah,
> and with whom you argued at the waters of Meribah.

> <a name="33:9">33:9</a> He said to his father and mother, “I have not seen him,”
> and he did not acknowledge his own brothers
> or know his own children,

> for they kept your word,
> and guarded your covenant.

> <a name="33:10">33:10</a> They will teach Jacob your ordinances
> and Israel your law;

> they will offer incense as a pleasant odor, 
> and a whole-offering on your altar.

> <a name="33:11">33:11</a> Bless, O Lord, his goods,
> and be pleased with his efforts;

> undercut the legs of any who attack him,
> and of those who hate him, so that they cannot stand.

## Blessing on Benjamin

<a name="33:12">33:12</a> Of Benjamin he said:

> The beloved of the Lord will live safely by him;
> he protects him all the time, 
> and the Lord places him on his chest.

## Blessing on Joseph

<a name="33:13">33:13</a> Of Joseph he said:

> May the Lord bless his land
> with the harvest produced by the sky, by the dew,
> and by the depths crouching beneath;

> <a name="33:14">33:14</a> with the harvest produced by the daylight
> and by the night;

> <a name="33:15">33:15</a> with the best of the ancient mountains
> and the harvest produced by the age-old hills;

> <a name="33:16">33:16</a> with the harvest of the earth and its fullness
> and the pleasure of him who resided in the bush.

> May blessing rest on Joseph’s head,
> and on the top of the head of the one set apart from his brothers.

> <a name="33:17">33:17</a> May the firstborn of his bull bring him honor,
> and may his horns be those of a wild ox;

> with them may he gore all peoples,
> all the far reaches of the earth.

> They are the ten thousands of Ephraim,
> and they are the thousands of Manasseh.

## Blessing on Zebulun and Issachar

<a name="33:18">33:18</a> Of Zebulun he said:

> Rejoice, Zebulun, when you go outside, 
> and Issachar, when you are in your tents.

> <a name="33:19">33:19</a> They will summon peoples to the mountain,
> there they will sacrifice proper sacrifices;

> for they will enjoy the abundance of the seas,
> and the hidden treasures of the coastlands.

## Blessing on Gad

<a name="33:20">33:20</a> Of Gad he said:

> Blessed be the one who enlarges Gad.
> Like a lioness he will dwell;
> he will tear at an arm — indeed, a scalp.

> <a name="33:21">33:21</a> He has selected the best part for himself,
> for the portion of the leader is set aside there;

> he came with the heads of the people,
> he obeyed the righteous laws of the Lord
> and his ordinances with Israel.

## Blessing on Dan

<a name="33:22">33:22</a> Of Dan he said:

> Dan is a lion’s cub;
> he will leap forth from Bashan.

## Blessing on Naphtali

<a name="33:23">33:23</a> Of Naphtali he said:

> O Naphtali, overflowing with favor,
> and full of the Lord’s blessing;
> possess the west and south.

## Blessing on Asher

<a name="33:24">33:24</a> Of Asher he said:

> Asher is blessed with children,
> may he be favored by his brothers
> and may he dip his foot in olive oil.

> <a name="33:25">33:25</a> The bars of your gates will be made of iron and bronze,
> and may you have lifelong strength.

## General Praise and Blessing

> <a name="33:26">33:26</a> There is no one like God, O Jeshurun,
> who rides through the sky to help you, 
> on the clouds in majesty.

> <a name="33:27">33:27</a> The everlasting God is a refuge, 
> and underneath you are his eternal arms;

> he has driven out enemies before you,
> and he has said, “Destroy!”

> <a name="33:28">33:28</a> Israel lives in safety,
> the fountain of Jacob is quite secure,

> in a land of grain and new wine;
> indeed, its heavens rain down dew.

> <a name="33:29">33:29</a> You have joy, Israel! Who is like you?
> You are a people delivered by the Lord,
> your protective shield
> and your exalted sword.

> May your enemies cringe before you;
> may you trample on their backs.
