---
title: 10
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


<a name="10:1">10:1</a> Why, Lord, do you stand far off?
Why do you pay no attention during times of trouble?

<a name="10:2">10:2</a> The wicked arrogantly chase the oppressed;
the oppressed are trapped by the schemes the wicked have dreamed up.

<a name="10:3">10:3</a> Yes, the wicked man boasts because he gets what he wants;
the one who robs others curses and rejects the Lord.

<a name="10:4">10:4</a> The wicked man is so arrogant he always thinks,
“God won’t hold me accountable; he doesn’t care.”

<a name="10:5">10:5</a> He is secure at all times.
He has no regard for your commands;
he disdains all his enemies.

<a name="10:6">10:6</a> He says to himself,
“I will never be upended,
because I experience no calamity.”

<a name="10:7">10:7</a> His mouth is full of curses and deceptive, harmful words;
his tongue injures and destroys.

<a name="10:8">10:8</a> He waits in ambush near the villages;
in hidden places he kills the innocent.
His eyes look for some unfortunate victim.

<a name="10:9">10:9</a> He lies in ambush in a hidden place, like a lion in a thicket;
he lies in ambush, waiting to catch the oppressed;
he catches the oppressed by pulling in his net.

<a name="10:10">10:10</a> His victims are crushed and beaten down;
they are trapped in his sturdy nets.

<a name="10:11">10:11</a> He says to himself,
“God overlooks it;
he does not pay attention;
he never notices.”

<a name="10:12">10:12</a> Rise up, Lord!
O God, strike him down!
Do not forget the oppressed!

<a name="10:13">10:13</a> Why does the wicked man reject God?
He says to himself, “You will not hold me accountable.”

<a name="10:14">10:14</a> You have taken notice,
for you always see one who inflicts pain and suffering.
The unfortunate victim entrusts his cause to you;
you deliver the fatherless.

<a name="10:15">10:15</a> Break the arm of the wicked and evil man!
Hold him accountable for his wicked deeds,
which he thought you would not discover.

<a name="10:16">10:16</a> The Lord rules forever!
The nations are driven out of his land.

<a name="10:17">10:17</a> Lord, you have heard the request of the oppressed;
you make them feel secure because you listen to their prayer.

<a name="10:18">10:18</a> You defend the fatherless and oppressed,
so that mere mortals may no longer terrorize them.