---
title: 103
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


By David.


<a name="103:1">103:1</a> Praise the Lord, O my soul!
With all that is within me, praise his holy name!

<a name="103:2">103:2</a> Praise the Lord, O my soul!
Do not forget all his kind deeds!

<a name="103:3">103:3</a> He is the one who forgives all your sins,
who heals all your diseases,

<a name="103:4">103:4</a> who delivers your life from the Pit,
who crowns you with his loyal love and compassion,

<a name="103:5">103:5</a> who satisfies your life with good things,
so your youth is renewed like an eagle’s.

<a name="103:6">103:6</a> The Lord does what is fair,
and executes justice for all the oppressed.

<a name="103:7">103:7</a> The Lord revealed his faithful acts to Moses,
his deeds to the Israelites.

<a name="103:8">103:8</a> The Lord is compassionate and merciful;
he is patient and demonstrates great loyal love.

<a name="103:9">103:9</a> He does not always accuse,
and does not stay angry.

<a name="103:10">103:10</a> He does not deal with us as our sins deserve;
he does not repay us as our misdeeds deserve.

<a name="103:11">103:11</a> For as the skies are high above the earth,
so his loyal love towers over his faithful followers.

<a name="103:12">103:12</a> As far as the eastern horizon is from the west,
so he removes the guilt of our rebellious actions from us.

<a name="103:13">103:13</a> As a father has compassion on his children,
so the Lord has compassion on his faithful followers.

<a name="103:14">103:14</a> For he knows what we are made of;
he realizes we are made of clay.

<a name="103:15">103:15</a> A person’s life is like grass.
Like a flower in the field it flourishes,

<a name="103:16">103:16</a> but when the hot wind blows by, it disappears,
and one can no longer even spot the place where it once grew.

<a name="103:17">103:17</a> But the Lord continually shows loyal love to his faithful followers,
and is faithful to their descendants,

<a name="103:18">103:18</a> to those who keep his covenant,
who are careful to obey his commands.

<a name="103:19">103:19</a> The Lord has established his throne in heaven;
his kingdom extends over everything.

<a name="103:20">103:20</a> Praise the Lord, you angels of his,
you powerful warriors who carry out his decrees
and obey his orders!

<a name="103:21">103:21</a> Praise the Lord, all you warriors of his,
you servants of his who carry out his desires!

<a name="103:22">103:22</a> Praise the Lord, all that he has made,
in all the regions of his kingdom!
Praise the Lord, O my soul!