---
title: 105
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


<a name="105:1">105:1</a> Give thanks to the Lord!
Call on his name!
Make known his accomplishments among the nations!

<a name="105:2">105:2</a> Sing to him!
Make music to him!
Reflect on all his miraculous deeds!

<a name="105:3">105:3</a> Boast about his holy name!
Let the hearts of those who seek the Lord rejoice!

<a name="105:4">105:4</a> Seek the Lord and the strength he gives!
Seek his presence continually!

<a name="105:5">105:5</a> Recall the miraculous deeds he performed,
his mighty acts and the judgments he decreed,

<a name="105:6">105:6</a> O children of Abraham, his servant,
you descendants of Jacob, his chosen ones!

<a name="105:7">105:7</a> He is the Lord our God;
he carries out judgment throughout the earth.

<a name="105:8">105:8</a> He always remembers his covenantal decree,
the promise he made to a thousand generations — 

<a name="105:9">105:9</a> the one he made to Abraham,
the promise he made by oath to Isaac!

<a name="105:10">105:10</a> He gave it to Jacob as a decree,
to Israel as a lasting promise,

<a name="105:11">105:11</a> saying, “To you I will give the land of Canaan
as the portion of your inheritance.”

<a name="105:12">105:12</a> When they were few in number,
just a very few, and resident aliens within it,

<a name="105:13">105:13</a> they wandered from nation to nation,
and from one kingdom to another.

<a name="105:14">105:14</a> He let no one oppress them;
he disciplined kings for their sake,

<a name="105:15">105:15</a> saying, “Don’t touch my chosen ones!
Don’t harm my prophets!”

<a name="105:16">105:16</a> He called down a famine upon the earth;
he cut off all the food supply.

<a name="105:17">105:17</a> He sent a man ahead of them — 
Joseph was sold as a servant.

<a name="105:18">105:18</a> The shackles hurt his feet;
his neck was placed in an iron collar,

<a name="105:19">105:19</a> until the time when his prediction came true.
The Lord’s word proved him right.

<a name="105:20">105:20</a> The king authorized his release;
the ruler of nations set him free.

<a name="105:21">105:21</a> He put him in charge of his palace,
and made him manager of all his property,

<a name="105:22">105:22</a> giving him authority to imprison his officials
and to teach his advisers.

<a name="105:23">105:23</a> Israel moved to Egypt;
Jacob lived for a time in the land of Ham.

<a name="105:24">105:24</a> The Lord made his people very fruitful,
and made them more numerous than their enemies.

<a name="105:25">105:25</a> He caused them to hate his people,
and to mistreat his servants.

<a name="105:26">105:26</a> He sent his servant Moses,
and Aaron, whom he had chosen.

<a name="105:27">105:27</a> They executed his miraculous signs among them,
and his amazing deeds in the land of Ham.

<a name="105:28">105:28</a> He made it dark;
they did not disobey his orders.

<a name="105:29">105:29</a> He turned their water into blood,
and killed their fish.

<a name="105:30">105:30</a> Their land was overrun by frogs,
which even got into the rooms of their kings.

<a name="105:31">105:31</a> He ordered flies to come;
gnats invaded their whole territory.

<a name="105:32">105:32</a> He sent hail along with the rain;
there was lightning in their land.

<a name="105:33">105:33</a> He destroyed their vines and fig trees,
and broke the trees throughout their territory.

<a name="105:34">105:34</a> He ordered locusts to come,
innumerable grasshoppers.

<a name="105:35">105:35</a> They ate all the vegetation in their land,
and devoured the crops of their fields.

<a name="105:36">105:36</a> He struck down all the firstborn in their land,
the first fruits of their reproductive power.

<a name="105:37">105:37</a> He brought his people out enriched with silver and gold;
none of his tribes stumbled.

<a name="105:38">105:38</a> Egypt was happy when they left,
for they were afraid of them.

<a name="105:39">105:39</a> He spread out a cloud for a cover,
and provided a fire to light up the night.

<a name="105:40">105:40</a> They asked for food, and he sent quails;
he satisfied them with food from the sky.

<a name="105:41">105:41</a> He opened up a rock and water flowed out;
a river ran through dry regions.

<a name="105:42">105:42</a> Yes, he remembered the sacred promise
he made to Abraham his servant.

<a name="105:43">105:43</a> When he led his people out, they rejoiced;
his chosen ones shouted with joy.

<a name="105:44">105:44</a> He handed the territory of nations over to them,
and they took possession of what other peoples had produced,

<a name="105:45">105:45</a> so that they might keep his commands
and obey his laws.
Praise the Lord!