---
title: 106
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


<a name="106:1">106:1</a> Praise the Lord!
Give thanks to the Lord, for he is good,
and his loyal love endures!

<a name="106:2">106:2</a> Who can adequately recount the Lord’s mighty acts,
or relate all his praiseworthy deeds?

<a name="106:3">106:3</a> How happy are those who promote justice,
and do what is right all the time!

<a name="106:4">106:4</a> Remember me, O Lord, when you show favor to your people!
Pay attention to me, when you deliver,

<a name="106:5">106:5</a> so I may see the prosperity of your chosen ones,
rejoice along with your nation,
and boast along with the people who belong to you.

<a name="106:6">106:6</a> We have sinned like our ancestors;
we have done wrong, we have done evil.

<a name="106:7">106:7</a> Our ancestors in Egypt failed to appreciate your miraculous deeds,
they failed to remember your many acts of loyal love,
and they rebelled at the sea, by the Red Sea.

<a name="106:8">106:8</a> Yet he delivered them for the sake of his reputation,
that he might reveal his power.

<a name="106:9">106:9</a> He shouted at the Red Sea and it dried up;
he led them through the deep water as if it were a desert.

<a name="106:10">106:10</a> He delivered them from the power of the one who hated them,
and rescued them from the power of the enemy.

<a name="106:11">106:11</a> The water covered their enemies;
not even one of them survived.

<a name="106:12">106:12</a> They believed his promises;
they sang praises to him.

<a name="106:13">106:13</a> They quickly forgot what he had done;
they did not wait for his instructions.

<a name="106:14">106:14</a> In the wilderness they had an insatiable craving for meat;
they challenged God in the desert.

<a name="106:15">106:15</a> He granted their request,
then struck them with a disease.

<a name="106:16">106:16</a> In the camp they resented Moses,
and Aaron, the Lord’s holy priest.

<a name="106:17">106:17</a> The earth opened up and swallowed Dathan;
it engulfed the group led by Abiram.

<a name="106:18">106:18</a> Fire burned their group;
the flames scorched the wicked.

<a name="106:19">106:19</a> They made an image of a calf at Horeb,
and worshiped a metal idol.

<a name="106:20">106:20</a> They traded their majestic God
for the image of an ox that eats grass.

<a name="106:21">106:21</a> They rejected the God who delivered them,
the one who performed great deeds in Egypt,

<a name="106:22">106:22</a> amazing feats in the land of Ham,
mighty acts by the Red Sea.

<a name="106:23">106:23</a> He threatened to destroy them,
but Moses, his chosen one, interceded with him
and turned back his destructive anger.

<a name="106:24">106:24</a> They rejected the fruitful land;
they did not believe his promise.

<a name="106:25">106:25</a> They grumbled in their tents;
they did not obey the Lord.

<a name="106:26">106:26</a> So he made a solemn vow
that he would make them die in the desert,

<a name="106:27">106:27</a> make their descendants die among the nations,
and scatter them among foreign lands.

<a name="106:28">106:28</a> They worshiped Baal of Peor,
and ate sacrifices offered to the dead.

<a name="106:29">106:29</a> They made the Lord angry by their actions,
and a plague broke out among them.

<a name="106:30">106:30</a> Phinehas took a stand and intervened,
and the plague subsided.

<a name="106:31">106:31</a> This brought him a reward,
an eternal gift.

<a name="106:32">106:32</a> They made him angry by the waters of Meribah,
and Moses suffered because of them,

<a name="106:33">106:33</a> for they aroused his temper,
and he spoke rashly.

<a name="106:34">106:34</a> They did not destroy the nations,
as the Lord had commanded them to do.

<a name="106:35">106:35</a> They mixed in with the nations
and learned their ways.

<a name="106:36">106:36</a> They worshiped their idols,
which became a snare to them.

<a name="106:37">106:37</a> They sacrificed their sons and daughters to demons.

<a name="106:38">106:38</a> They shed innocent blood — 
the blood of their sons and daughters,
whom they sacrificed to the idols of Canaan.
The land was polluted by bloodshed.

<a name="106:39">106:39</a> They were defiled by their deeds,
and unfaithful in their actions.

<a name="106:40">106:40</a> So the Lord was angry with his people
and despised the people who belong to him.

<a name="106:41">106:41</a> He handed them over to the nations,
and those who hated them ruled over them.

<a name="106:42">106:42</a> Their enemies oppressed them;
they were subject to their authority.

<a name="106:43">106:43</a> Many times he delivered them,
but they had a rebellious attitude,
and degraded themselves by their sin.

<a name="106:44">106:44</a> Yet he took notice of their distress,
when he heard their cry for help.

<a name="106:45">106:45</a> He remembered his covenant with them,
and relented because of his great loyal love.

<a name="106:46">106:46</a> He caused all their conquerors
to have pity on them.

<a name="106:47">106:47</a> Deliver us, O Lord, our God!
Gather us from among the nations!
Then we will give thanks to your holy name,
and boast about your praiseworthy deeds.

<a name="106:48">106:48</a> The Lord God of Israel deserves praise,
in the future and forevermore.
Let all the people say, “We agree! Praise the Lord!”