---
title: 109
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


For the music director, a psalm of David.


<a name="109:1">109:1</a> O God whom I praise, do not ignore me!

<a name="109:2">109:2</a> For they say cruel and deceptive things to me;
they lie to me.

<a name="109:3">109:3</a> They surround me and say hateful things;
they attack me for no reason.

<a name="109:4">109:4</a> They repay my love with accusations,
but I continue to pray.

<a name="109:5">109:5</a> They repay me evil for good,
and hate for love.

<a name="109:6">109:6</a> Appoint an evil man to testify against him!
May an accuser stand at his right side!

<a name="109:7">109:7</a> When he is judged, he will be found guilty!
Then his prayer will be regarded as sinful.

<a name="109:8">109:8</a> May his days be few!
May another take his job!

<a name="109:9">109:9</a> May his children be fatherless,
and his wife a widow!

<a name="109:10">109:10</a> May his children roam around begging,
asking for handouts as they leave their ruined home!

<a name="109:11">109:11</a> May the creditor seize all he owns!
May strangers loot his property!

<a name="109:12">109:12</a> May no one show him kindness!
May no one have compassion on his fatherless children!

<a name="109:13">109:13</a> May his descendants be cut off!
May the memory of them be wiped out by the time the next generation arrives!

<a name="109:14">109:14</a> May his ancestors’ sins be remembered by the Lord!
May his mother’s sin not be forgotten!

<a name="109:15">109:15</a> May the Lord be constantly aware of them,
and cut off the memory of his children from the earth!

<a name="109:16">109:16</a> For he never bothered to show kindness;
he harassed the oppressed and needy,
and killed the disheartened.

<a name="109:17">109:17</a> He loved to curse others, so those curses have come upon him.
He had no desire to bless anyone, so he has experienced no blessings.

<a name="109:18">109:18</a> He made cursing a way of life,
so curses poured into his stomach like water
and seeped into his bones like oil.

<a name="109:19">109:19</a> May a curse attach itself to him, like a garment one puts on,
or a belt one wears continually!

<a name="109:20">109:20</a> May the Lord repay my accusers in this way,
those who say evil things about me!

<a name="109:21">109:21</a> O sovereign Lord,
intervene on my behalf for the sake of your reputation!
Because your loyal love is good, deliver me!

<a name="109:22">109:22</a> For I am oppressed and needy,
and my heart beats violently within me.

<a name="109:23">109:23</a> I am fading away like a shadow at the end of the day;
I am shaken off like a locust.

<a name="109:24">109:24</a> I am so starved my knees shake;
I have turned into skin and bones.

<a name="109:25">109:25</a> I am disdained by them.
When they see me, they shake their heads.

<a name="109:26">109:26</a> Help me, O Lord my God!
Because you are faithful to me, deliver me!

<a name="109:27">109:27</a> Then they will realize this is your work,
and that you, Lord, have accomplished it.

<a name="109:28">109:28</a> They curse, but you will bless.
When they attack, they will be humiliated,
but your servant will rejoice.

<a name="109:29">109:29</a> My accusers will be covered with shame,
and draped in humiliation as if it were a robe.

<a name="109:30">109:30</a> I will thank the Lord profusely,
in the middle of a crowd I will praise him,

<a name="109:31">109:31</a> because he stands at the right hand of the needy,
to deliver him from those who threaten his life.