---
title: 119
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


### א (Alef)


<a name="119:1">119:1</a> How happy are those whose actions are blameless,
who obey the law of the Lord.

<a name="119:2">119:2</a> How happy are those who observe his rules,
and seek him with all their heart,

<a name="119:3">119:3</a> who, moreover, do no wrong,
but obey his demands.

<a name="119:4">119:4</a> You demand that your precepts
be carefully kept.

<a name="119:5">119:5</a> If only I were predisposed
to keep your statutes!

<a name="119:6">119:6</a> Then I would not be ashamed,
if I were focused on all your commands.

<a name="119:7">119:7</a> I will give you sincere thanks,
when I learn your just regulations.

<a name="119:8">119:8</a> I will keep your statutes.
Do not completely abandon me!

### ב (Bet)


<a name="119:9">119:9</a> How can a young person maintain a pure lifestyle?
By following your instructions!

<a name="119:10">119:10</a> With all my heart I seek you.
Do not allow me to stray from your commands!

<a name="119:11">119:11</a> In my heart I store up your words,
so I might not sin against you.

<a name="119:12">119:12</a> You deserve praise, O Lord!
Teach me your statutes!

<a name="119:13">119:13</a> With my lips I proclaim
all the regulations you have revealed.

<a name="119:14">119:14</a> I rejoice in the lifestyle prescribed by your rules
as if they were riches of all kinds.

<a name="119:15">119:15</a> I will meditate on your precepts
and focus on your demands.

<a name="119:16">119:16</a> I find delight in your statutes;
I do not forget your instructions.

### ג (Gimel)


<a name="119:17">119:17</a> Be kind to your servant!
Then I will live and keep your instructions.

<a name="119:18">119:18</a> Uncover my eyes so I can gaze at
marvelous things out of your law!

<a name="119:19">119:19</a> I am like a foreigner temporarily residing in a land.
Do not hide your commands from me!

<a name="119:20">119:20</a> I desperately long to know
your regulations at all times.

<a name="119:21">119:21</a> You reprimand arrogant people.
Those who stray from your commands are doomed.

<a name="119:22">119:22</a> Spare me shame and humiliation,
for I observe your rules.

<a name="119:23">119:23</a> Though rulers plot and slander me,
your servant meditates on your statutes.

<a name="119:24">119:24</a> Yes, I find delight in your rules;
they give me guidance.

### ד (Dalet)


<a name="119:25">119:25</a> I sprawl in the dirt.
Revive me with your assuring word!

<a name="119:26">119:26</a> I told you about my circumstances and you answered me.
Teach me your statutes!

<a name="119:27">119:27</a> Help me to understand what your precepts mean!
Then I can meditate on your amazing teachings.

<a name="119:28">119:28</a> I collapse from grief.
Sustain me by your assuring word!

<a name="119:29">119:29</a> Remove me from the path of deceit!
Graciously give me your law!

<a name="119:30">119:30</a> I choose the path of faithfulness;
I am committed to your regulations.

<a name="119:31">119:31</a> I hold fast to your rules.
O Lord, do not let me be ashamed!

<a name="119:32">119:32</a> I run along in the path of your commands,
for you give me the capacity to do so.

### ה (He)


<a name="119:33">119:33</a> Teach me, O Lord, the lifestyle prescribed by your statutes,
so that I might observe it continually.

<a name="119:34">119:34</a> Give me understanding so that I might observe your law,
and keep it with all my heart.

<a name="119:35">119:35</a> Guide me in the path of your commands,
for I delight in walking in it.

<a name="119:36">119:36</a> Give me a desire for your rules,
rather than wealth.

<a name="119:37">119:37</a> Turn my eyes away from what is worthless!
Revive me with your assuring word!

<a name="119:38">119:38</a> Confirm to your servant your promise,
which you made to the one who honors you.

<a name="119:39">119:39</a> Take away the insults that I dread!
Indeed, your regulations are good.

<a name="119:40">119:40</a> Look, I long for your precepts.
Revive me with your deliverance!

### ו (Vav)


<a name="119:41">119:41</a> May I experience your loyal love, O Lord,
and your deliverance, as you promised.

<a name="119:42">119:42</a> Then I will have a response for the one who insults me,
for I trust in your assuring word.

<a name="119:43">119:43</a> Do not deprive me totally of being able to give a truthful testimony,
for I wait for your justice.

<a name="119:44">119:44</a> Then I will keep your law continually
and on into the future.

<a name="119:45">119:45</a> I will be secure,
for I seek your precepts.

<a name="119:46">119:46</a> I will speak about your regulations before kings
and not be ashamed.

<a name="119:47">119:47</a> I will find delight in your commands,
which I love.

<a name="119:48">119:48</a> I will lift my hands to your commands,
which I love,
and I will meditate on your statutes.

### ז (Zayin)


<a name="119:49">119:49</a> Remember your assuring word to your servant,
for you have given me hope.

<a name="119:50">119:50</a> This is what comforts me in my trouble,
for your promise revives me.

<a name="119:51">119:51</a> Arrogant people do nothing but scoff at me.
Yet I do not turn aside from your law.

<a name="119:52">119:52</a> I remember your ancient regulations,
O Lord, and console myself.

<a name="119:53">119:53</a> Rage takes hold of me because of the wicked,
those who reject your law.

<a name="119:54">119:54</a> I have sung about your statutes
in the house where I live.

<a name="119:55">119:55</a> I remember your name during the night, O Lord,
and I will keep your law.

<a name="119:56">119:56</a> This has been my practice,
for I observe your precepts.

### ח (Khet)


<a name="119:57">119:57</a> The Lord is my source of security.
I have determined to follow your instructions.

<a name="119:58">119:58</a> I seek your favor with all my heart.
Have mercy on me as you promised!

<a name="119:59">119:59</a> I consider my actions
and follow your rules.

<a name="119:60">119:60</a> I keep your commands
eagerly and without delay.

<a name="119:61">119:61</a> The ropes of the wicked tighten around me,
but I do not forget your law.

<a name="119:62">119:62</a> In the middle of the night I arise to thank you
for your just regulations.

<a name="119:63">119:63</a> I am a friend of all your loyal followers,
and of those who keep your precepts.

<a name="119:64">119:64</a> O Lord, your loyal love fills the earth.
Teach me your statutes!

### ט (Tet)


<a name="119:65">119:65</a> You are good to your servant,
O Lord, just as you promised.

<a name="119:66">119:66</a> Teach me proper discernment and understanding!
For I consider your commands to be reliable.

<a name="119:67">119:67</a> I used to suffer because I would stray off,
but now I keep your instructions.

<a name="119:68">119:68</a> You are good and you do good.
Teach me your statutes!

<a name="119:69">119:69</a> Arrogant people smear my reputation with lies,
but I observe your precepts with all my heart.

<a name="119:70">119:70</a> They are calloused,
but I find delight in your law.

<a name="119:71">119:71</a> It was good for me to suffer,
so that I might learn your statutes.

<a name="119:72">119:72</a> The law you have revealed is more important to me
than thousands of gold and silver shekels.

### י (Yod)


<a name="119:73">119:73</a> Your hands made me and formed me.
Give me understanding so that I might learn your commands.

<a name="119:74">119:74</a> Your loyal followers will be glad when they see me,
for I find hope in your assuring word.

<a name="119:75">119:75</a> I know, Lord, that your regulations are just.
You disciplined me because of your faithful devotion to me.

<a name="119:76">119:76</a> May your loyal love console me,
as you promised your servant.

<a name="119:77">119:77</a> May I experience your compassion, so I might live!
For I find delight in your law.

<a name="119:78">119:78</a> May the arrogant be humiliated, for they have slandered me!
But I meditate on your precepts.

<a name="119:79">119:79</a> May your loyal followers turn to me,
those who know your rules.

<a name="119:80">119:80</a> May I be fully committed to your statutes,
so that I might not be ashamed.

### כ (Kaf)


<a name="119:81">119:81</a> I desperately long for your deliverance.
I find hope in your assuring word.

<a name="119:82">119:82</a> My eyes grow tired as I wait for your promise to be fulfilled.
I say, “When will you comfort me?”

<a name="119:83">119:83</a> For I am like a leather container that shrivels up in a smoke-filled room.
I do not forget your statutes.

<a name="119:84">119:84</a> How long must your servant endure this?
When will you judge those who chase me?

<a name="119:85">119:85</a> The arrogant dig pits to trap me,
which violates your law.

<a name="119:86">119:86</a> All your commands are reliable.
They chase me without reason. Help me!

<a name="119:87">119:87</a> They have almost destroyed me here on the earth,
but I do not reject your precepts.

<a name="119:88">119:88</a> Revive me with your loyal love,
that I might keep the rules you have revealed.

### ל (Lamed)


<a name="119:89">119:89</a> O Lord, your instructions endure;
they stand secure in heaven.

<a name="119:90">119:90</a> You demonstrate your faithfulness to all generations.
You established the earth and it stood firm.

<a name="119:91">119:91</a> Today they stand firm by your decrees,
for all things are your servants.

<a name="119:92">119:92</a> If I had not found encouragement in your law,
I would have died in my sorrow.

<a name="119:93">119:93</a> I will never forget your precepts,
for by them you have revived me.

<a name="119:94">119:94</a> I belong to you. Deliver me!
For I seek your precepts.

<a name="119:95">119:95</a> The wicked prepare to kill me,
yet I think about your rules.

<a name="119:96">119:96</a> I realize that everything has its limits,
but your commands are beyond full comprehension.

### מ (Mem)


<a name="119:97">119:97</a> O how I love your law!
All day long I meditate on it.

<a name="119:98">119:98</a> Your law makes me wiser than my enemies,
for I am always aware of it.

<a name="119:99">119:99</a> I even have more insight than all my teachers,
for I meditate on your rules.

<a name="119:100">119:100</a> I am more discerning than the older men,
for I observe your precepts.

<a name="119:101">119:101</a> I stay away from the evil path,
so that I might keep your instructions.

<a name="119:102">119:102</a> I do not turn aside from your regulations,
for you teach me.

<a name="119:103">119:103</a> Your words are tastier
in my mouth than honey!

<a name="119:104">119:104</a> Your precepts give me discernment.
Therefore I hate all deceitful actions.

### נ (Nun)


<a name="119:105">119:105</a> Your instructions are a lamp that shows me where to walk,
and a light that shines on my path.

<a name="119:106">119:106</a> I have vowed and solemnly sworn
to keep your just regulations.

<a name="119:107">119:107</a> I am suffering a great deal.
O Lord, revive me with your assuring word!

<a name="119:108">119:108</a> O Lord, please accept the freewill offerings from my mouth!
Teach me your regulations!

<a name="119:109">119:109</a> My life is in continual danger,
but I do not forget your law.

<a name="119:110">119:110</a> The wicked lay a snare for me,
but I do not wander from your precepts.

<a name="119:111">119:111</a> I claim your rules as my permanent possession,
for they give me joy.

<a name="119:112">119:112</a> I am determined to obey your statutes
at all times to the very end.

### ס (Samek)


<a name="119:113">119:113</a> I hate people with divided loyalties,
but I love your law.

<a name="119:114">119:114</a> You are my hiding place and my shield.
I find hope in your assuring word.

<a name="119:115">119:115</a> Turn back from me, you evil men,
so that I might observe the commands of my God.

<a name="119:116">119:116</a> Sustain me as you promised, so that I might live.
Do not disappoint me!

<a name="119:117">119:117</a> Support me, so that I might be delivered.
Then I will focus on your statutes continually.

<a name="119:118">119:118</a> You despise all who stray from your statutes,
for they are deceptive and unreliable.

<a name="119:119">119:119</a> You remove all the wicked of the earth like slag.
Therefore I love your rules.

<a name="119:120">119:120</a> My body trembles because of my fear of you;
I am afraid of your judgments.

### ע (Ayin)


<a name="119:121">119:121</a> I do what is fair and right.
Do not abandon me to my oppressors!

<a name="119:122">119:122</a> Guarantee the well-being of your servant!
Do not let the arrogant oppress me!

<a name="119:123">119:123</a> My eyes grow tired as I wait for your deliverance,
for your reliable promise to be fulfilled.

<a name="119:124">119:124</a> Show your servant your loyal love!
Teach me your statutes!

<a name="119:125">119:125</a> I am your servant. Give me insight,
that I might understand your rules.

<a name="119:126">119:126</a> It is time for the Lord to act — 
they break your law!

<a name="119:127">119:127</a> For this reason I love your commands
more than gold, even pure gold.

<a name="119:128">119:128</a> For this reason I carefully follow all your precepts.
I hate all deceitful actions.

### פ (Pe)


<a name="119:129">119:129</a> Your rules are marvelous.
Therefore I observe them.

<a name="119:130">119:130</a> Your instructions are like a doorway through which the light shines.
They give insight to the untrained.

<a name="119:131">119:131</a> I open my mouth and gasp,
because I long for your commands.

<a name="119:132">119:132</a> Turn toward me and extend mercy to me,
as you typically do to your loyal followers.

<a name="119:133">119:133</a> Direct my steps by your word!
Do not let any sin dominate me!

<a name="119:134">119:134</a> Deliver me from oppressive men,
that I might keep your precepts.

<a name="119:135">119:135</a> Smile on your servant!
Teach me your statutes!

<a name="119:136">119:136</a> Tears stream down from my eyes,
because they do not keep your law.

### צ (Tsade)


<a name="119:137">119:137</a> You are just, O Lord,
and your regulations are fair.

<a name="119:138">119:138</a> The rules you impose are just,
and absolutely reliable.

<a name="119:139">119:139</a> My devotion consumes me,
for my enemies forget your instructions.

<a name="119:140">119:140</a> Your word is absolutely pure,
and your servant loves it.

<a name="119:141">119:141</a> I am insignificant and despised,
yet I do not forget your precepts.

<a name="119:142">119:142</a> Your justice endures,
and your law is reliable.

<a name="119:143">119:143</a> Distress and hardship confront me,
yet I find delight in your commands.

<a name="119:144">119:144</a> Your rules remain just.
Give me insight that I might live.

### ק (Qof)


<a name="119:145">119:145</a> I cried out with all my heart, “Answer me, O Lord!
I will observe your statutes.”

<a name="119:146">119:146</a> I cried out to you, “Deliver me,
that I might keep your rules.”

<a name="119:147">119:147</a> I am up before dawn crying out.
I find hope in your assuring word.

<a name="119:148">119:148</a> My eyes anticipate the nighttime hours,
that I may meditate on your word.

<a name="119:149">119:149</a> Listen to me because of your loyal love!
O Lord, revive me, as you typically do!

<a name="119:150">119:150</a> Those who are eager to do wrong approach;
they are far from your law.

<a name="119:151">119:151</a> You are near, O Lord,
and all your commands are reliable.

<a name="119:152">119:152</a> Long ago I realized that
you ordained your rules to last.

### ר (Resh)


<a name="119:153">119:153</a> See my pain and rescue me!
For I do not forget your law.

<a name="119:154">119:154</a> Fight for me and defend me!
Revive me with your assuring word!

<a name="119:155">119:155</a> The wicked have no chance for deliverance,
for they do not seek your statutes.

<a name="119:156">119:156</a> Your compassion is great, O Lord.
Revive me, as you typically do!

<a name="119:157">119:157</a> The enemies who chase me are numerous.
Yet I do not turn aside from your rules.

<a name="119:158">119:158</a> I take note of the treacherous and despise them,
because they do not keep your instructions.

<a name="119:159">119:159</a> See how I love your precepts!
O Lord, revive me with your loyal love!

<a name="119:160">119:160</a> Your instructions are totally reliable;
all your just regulations endure.

### ש (Sin/Shin)


<a name="119:161">119:161</a> Rulers chase me for no reason,
yet I fear disobeying your instructions.

<a name="119:162">119:162</a> My heart rejoices in your instructions,
like one who gathers up a great deal of plunder.

<a name="119:163">119:163</a> I hate and despise deceit;
I love your law.

<a name="119:164">119:164</a> Seven times a day I praise you
because of your just regulations.

<a name="119:165">119:165</a> Those who love your law are completely secure;
they are not upended.

<a name="119:166">119:166</a> I hope for your deliverance, O Lord,
and I obey your commands.

<a name="119:167">119:167</a> I keep your rules;
I love them greatly.

<a name="119:168">119:168</a> I keep your precepts and rules,
for you are aware of all my actions.

### ת (Tav)


<a name="119:169">119:169</a> Listen to my cry for help, O Lord!
Give me insight by your instructions!

<a name="119:170">119:170</a> Listen to my appeal for mercy!
Deliver me, as you promised.

<a name="119:171">119:171</a> May praise gush from my lips,
for you teach me your statutes.

<a name="119:172">119:172</a> May my tongue sing about your instructions,
for all your commands are just.

<a name="119:173">119:173</a> May your hand help me,
for I choose to obey your precepts.

<a name="119:174">119:174</a> I long for your deliverance, O Lord;
I find delight in your law.

<a name="119:175">119:175</a> May I live and praise you!
May your regulations help me!

<a name="119:176">119:176</a> I am as vulnerable as a straying and lost sheep.
Come looking for your servant,
for I do not forget your commands.