---
title: 132
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


A song of ascents.


<a name="132:1">132:1</a> O Lord, for David’s sake remember
all his strenuous effort,

<a name="132:2">132:2</a> and how he made a vow to the Lord,
and swore an oath to the powerful ruler of Jacob.

<a name="132:3">132:3</a> He said, “I will not enter my own home,
or get into my bed.

<a name="132:4">132:4</a> I will not allow my eyes to sleep,
or my eyelids to slumber,

<a name="132:5">132:5</a> until I find a place for the Lord,
a fine dwelling place for the powerful ruler of Jacob.”

<a name="132:6">132:6</a> Look, we heard about it in Ephrathah,
we found it in the territory of Jaar.

<a name="132:7">132:7</a> Let us go to his dwelling place!
Let us worship before his footstool!

<a name="132:8">132:8</a> Ascend, O Lord, to your resting place,
you and the ark of your strength!

<a name="132:9">132:9</a> May your priests be clothed with integrity!
May your loyal followers shout for joy!

<a name="132:10">132:10</a> For the sake of David, your servant,
do not reject your chosen king!

<a name="132:11">132:11</a> The Lord made a reliable promise to David;
he will not go back on his word.
He said, “I will place one of your descendants on your throne.

<a name="132:12">132:12</a> If your sons keep my covenant
and the rules I teach them,
their sons will also sit on your throne forever.”

<a name="132:13">132:13</a> Certainly the Lord has chosen Zion;
he decided to make it his home.

<a name="132:14">132:14</a> He said, “This will be my resting place forever;
I will live here, for I have chosen it.

<a name="132:15">132:15</a> I will abundantly supply what she needs;
I will give her poor all the food they need.

<a name="132:16">132:16</a> I will protect her priests,
and her godly people will shout exuberantly.

<a name="132:17">132:17</a> There I will make David strong;
I have determined that my chosen king’s dynasty will continue.

<a name="132:18">132:18</a> I will humiliate his enemies,
and his crown will shine.