---
title: 135
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


<a name="135:1">135:1</a> Praise the Lord!
Praise the name of the Lord!
Offer praise, you servants of the Lord,

<a name="135:2">135:2</a> who serve in the Lord’s temple,
in the courts of the temple of our God.

<a name="135:3">135:3</a> Praise the Lord, for the Lord is good!
Sing praises to his name, for it is pleasant!

<a name="135:4">135:4</a> Indeed, the Lord has chosen Jacob for himself,
Israel to be his special possession.

<a name="135:5">135:5</a> Yes, I know the Lord is great,
and our sovereign Master is superior to all gods.

<a name="135:6">135:6</a> He does whatever he pleases
in heaven and on earth,
in the seas and all the ocean depths.

<a name="135:7">135:7</a> He causes the clouds to arise from the end of the earth,
makes lightning bolts accompany the rain,
and brings the wind out of his storehouses.

<a name="135:8">135:8</a> He struck down the firstborn of Egypt,
including both men and animals.

<a name="135:9">135:9</a> He performed awesome deeds and acts of judgment
in your midst, O Egypt,
against Pharaoh and all his servants.

<a name="135:10">135:10</a> He defeated many nations,
and killed mighty kings — 

<a name="135:11">135:11</a> Sihon, king of the Amorites,
and Og, king of Bashan,
and all the kingdoms of Canaan.

<a name="135:12">135:12</a> He gave their land as an inheritance,
as an inheritance to Israel his people.

<a name="135:13">135:13</a> O Lord, your name endures,
your reputation, O Lord, lasts.

<a name="135:14">135:14</a> For the Lord vindicates his people,
and has compassion on his servants.

<a name="135:15">135:15</a> The nations’ idols are made of silver and gold,
they are man-made.

<a name="135:16">135:16</a> They have mouths, but cannot speak,
eyes, but cannot see,

<a name="135:17">135:17</a> and ears, but cannot hear.
Indeed, they cannot breathe.

<a name="135:18">135:18</a> Those who make them will end up like them,
as will everyone who trusts in them.

<a name="135:19">135:19</a> O family of Israel, praise the Lord!
O family of Aaron, praise the Lord!

<a name="135:20">135:20</a> O family of Levi, praise the Lord!
You loyal followers of the Lord, praise the Lord!

<a name="135:21">135:21</a> The Lord deserves praise in Zion — 
he who dwells in Jerusalem.
Praise the Lord!