---
title: 147
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


<a name="147:1">147:1</a> Praise the Lord,
for it is good to sing praises to our God!
Yes, praise is pleasant and appropriate!

<a name="147:2">147:2</a> The Lord rebuilds Jerusalem,
and gathers the exiles of Israel.

<a name="147:3">147:3</a> He heals the brokenhearted,
and bandages their wounds.

<a name="147:4">147:4</a> He counts the number of the stars;
he names all of them.

<a name="147:5">147:5</a> Our sovereign Master is great and has awesome power;
there is no limit to his wisdom.

<a name="147:6">147:6</a> The Lord lifts up the oppressed,
but knocks the wicked to the ground.

<a name="147:7">147:7</a> Offer to the Lord a song of thanks!
Sing praises to our God to the accompaniment of a harp!

<a name="147:8">147:8</a> He covers the sky with clouds,
provides the earth with rain,
and causes grass to grow on the hillsides.

<a name="147:9">147:9</a> He gives food to the animals,
and to the young ravens when they chirp.

<a name="147:10">147:10</a> He is not enamored with the strength of a horse,
nor is he impressed by the warrior’s strong legs.

<a name="147:11">147:11</a> The Lord takes delight in his faithful followers,
and in those who wait for his loyal love.

<a name="147:12">147:12</a> Extol the Lord, O Jerusalem!
Praise your God, O Zion!

<a name="147:13">147:13</a> For he makes the bars of your gates strong.
He blesses your children within you.

<a name="147:14">147:14</a> He brings peace to your territory.
He abundantly provides for you the best grain.

<a name="147:15">147:15</a> He sends his command through the earth;
swiftly his order reaches its destination.

<a name="147:16">147:16</a> He sends the snow that is white like wool;
he spreads the frost that is white like ashes.

<a name="147:17">147:17</a> He throws his hailstones like crumbs.
Who can withstand the cold wind he sends?

<a name="147:18">147:18</a> He then orders it all to melt;
he breathes on it, and the water flows.

<a name="147:19">147:19</a> He proclaims his word to Jacob,
his statutes and regulations to Israel.

<a name="147:20">147:20</a> He has not done so with any other nation;
they are not aware of his regulations.
Praise the Lord!