---
title: 19
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


For the music director; a psalm of David.

<a name="19:1">19:1</a> The heavens declare God’s glory;
the sky displays his handiwork.

<a name="19:2">19:2</a> Day after day it speaks out;
night after night it reveals his greatness.

<a name="19:3">19:3</a> There is no actual speech or word,
nor is its voice literally heard.

<a name="19:4">19:4</a> Yet its voice echoes throughout the earth;
its words carry to the distant horizon.
In the sky he has pitched a tent for the sun.

<a name="19:5">19:5</a> Like a bridegroom it emerges from its chamber;
like a strong man it enjoys running its course.

<a name="19:6">19:6</a> It emerges from the distant horizon,
and goes from one end of the sky to the other;
nothing can escape its heat.

<a name="19:7">19:7</a> The law of the Lord is perfect
and preserves one’s life.
The rules set down by the Lord are reliable
and impart wisdom to the untrained.

<a name="19:8">19:8</a> The Lord’s precepts are fair
and make one happy.
The Lord’s commands are pure
and give moral insight.

<a name="19:9">19:9</a> The commands to fear the Lord are right
and permanent.
The regulations given by the Lord are trustworthy
and completely just.

<a name="19:10">19:10</a> They are of greater value than gold,
than even a great amount of pure gold;
they bring greater delight than honey,
than even the sweetest honey from honeycomb.

<a name="19:11">19:11</a> Yes, your servant finds moral guidance there;
those who obey them receive a rich reward.

<a name="19:12">19:12</a> Who can avoid sinning?
Please do not punish my unintentional sins.

<a name="19:13">19:13</a> Moreover, keep me from committing flagrant sins;
do not allow such sins to control me.
Then I will be blameless,
and innocent of blatant rebellion.

<a name="19:14">19:14</a> May my words and my thoughts
be acceptable in your sight,
O Lord, my protector and my defender.