---
title: 22
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


For the music director; according to the tune “Morning Doe;” a psalm of David.

<a name="22:1">22:1</a> My God, my God, why do you reject me?
I groan in prayer, but help seems far away.

<a name="22:2">22:2</a> My God, I cry out during the day,
but you do not answer,
and during the night my prayers do not let up.

<a name="22:3">22:3</a> You are sovereign;
you sit as king over the worshiping community of Israel.

<a name="22:4">22:4</a> In you our ancestors trusted;
they trusted in you and you rescued them.

<a name="22:5">22:5</a> To you they cried out, and they were saved;
in you they trusted and they were not disappointed.

<a name="22:6">22:6</a> But I feel like a worm, not a man;
people insult me and despise me.

<a name="22:7">22:7</a> All who see me taunt me;
they mock me and shake their heads.

<a name="22:8">22:8</a> They say,
“Commit yourself to the Lord!
Let the Lord rescue him!
Let the Lord deliver him, for he delights in him.”

<a name="22:9">22:9</a> Yes, you are the one who pulled me from the womb,
and made me feel secure on my mother’s breasts.

<a name="22:10">22:10</a> I have been dependent on you since birth;
from the time I came out of my mother’s womb you have been my God.

<a name="22:11">22:11</a> Do not remain far away from me,
for trouble is near and I have no one to help me.

<a name="22:12">22:12</a> Many bulls surround me;
powerful bulls of Bashan hem me in.

<a name="22:13">22:13</a> They get ready to devour me
like a roaring lion that rips its prey.

<a name="22:14">22:14</a> My strength drains away like water;
all my bones are dislocated;
my courage is like wax;
it melts away inside me.

<a name="22:15">22:15</a> The roof of my mouth is as dry as a piece of pottery;
my tongue sticks to my gums.
You are making me descend into the grave.

<a name="22:16">22:16</a> Yes, wild dogs surround me — 
a gang of evil men crowd around me;
like a lion they pin my hands and feet to the ground.

<a name="22:17">22:17</a> I can count all my bones;
my enemies are gloating over me in triumph.

<a name="22:18">22:18</a> They are dividing up my clothes among themselves;
they are rolling dice for my garments.

<a name="22:19">22:19</a> But you, O Lord, do not remain far away!
You are my source of strength! Hurry and help me!

<a name="22:20">22:20</a> Deliver me from the sword!
Save my life from the paws of the wild dogs!

<a name="22:21">22:21</a> Rescue me from the mouth of the lion,
and from the horns of the wild oxen!
You have answered me!

<a name="22:22">22:22</a> I will declare your name to my countrymen!
In the middle of the assembly I will praise you!

<a name="22:23">22:23</a> You loyal followers of the Lord, praise him!
All you descendants of Jacob, worship him!
All you descendants of Israel, stand in awe of him!

<a name="22:24">22:24</a> For he did not despise or shun the humble condition of the oppressed;
he did not ignore him;
when he cried out to him, he responded.

<a name="22:25">22:25</a> You are the reason I offer praise in the great assembly;
I will fulfill my promises before the Lord’s loyal followers.

<a name="22:26">22:26</a> Let the oppressed eat and be filled!
Let those who seek his help praise the Lord!
May you experience lasting encouragement!

<a name="22:27">22:27</a> Let all the people of the earth acknowledge the Lord and turn to him!
Let all the nations worship you!

<a name="22:28">22:28</a> For the Lord is king
and rules over the nations.

<a name="22:29">22:29</a> All of the robust people of the earth will join the celebration and worship;
all those who are descending into the grave will bow before him,
including those who cannot preserve their lives.

<a name="22:30">22:30</a> A whole generation will serve him;
they will tell the next generation about the sovereign Lord.

<a name="22:31">22:31</a> They will come and tell about his saving deeds;
they will tell a future generation what he has accomplished.