---
title: 27
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


By David.

<a name="27:1">27:1</a> The Lord delivers and vindicates me!
I fear no one!
The Lord protects my life!
I am afraid of no one!

<a name="27:2">27:2</a> When evil men attack me
to devour my flesh,
when my adversaries and enemies attack me,
they stumble and fall.

<a name="27:3">27:3</a> Even when an army is deployed against me,
I do not fear.
Even when war is imminent,
I remain confident.

<a name="27:4">27:4</a> I have asked the Lord for one thing — 
this is what I desire!
I want to live in the Lord’s house all the days of my life,
so I can gaze at the splendor of the Lord
and contemplate in his temple.

<a name="27:5">27:5</a> He will surely give me shelter in the day of danger;
he will hide me in his home;
he will place me on an inaccessible rocky summit.

<a name="27:6">27:6</a> Now I will triumph
over my enemies who surround me!
I will offer sacrifices in his dwelling place and shout for joy!
I will sing praises to the Lord!

<a name="27:7">27:7</a> Hear me, O Lord, when I cry out!
Have mercy on me and answer me!

<a name="27:8">27:8</a> My heart tells me to pray to you,
and I do pray to you, O Lord.

<a name="27:9">27:9</a> Do not reject me!
Do not push your servant away in anger!
You are my deliverer!
Do not forsake or abandon me,
O God who vindicates me!

<a name="27:10">27:10</a> Even if my father and mother abandoned me,
the Lord would take me in.

<a name="27:11">27:11</a> Teach me how you want me to live;
lead me along a level path because of those who wait to ambush me!

<a name="27:12">27:12</a> Do not turn me over to my enemies,
for false witnesses who want to destroy me testify against me.

<a name="27:13">27:13</a> Where would I be if I did not believe I would experience
the Lord’s favor in the land of the living?

<a name="27:14">27:14</a> Rely on the Lord!
Be strong and confident!
Rely on the Lord!