---
title: 32
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


By David; a well-written song.

<a name="32:1">32:1</a> How happy is the one whose rebellious acts are forgiven,
whose sin is pardoned!

<a name="32:2">32:2</a> How happy is the one whose wrongdoing the Lord does not punish,
in whose spirit there is no deceit.

<a name="32:3">32:3</a> When I refused to confess my sin,
my whole body wasted away,
while I groaned in pain all day long.

<a name="32:4">32:4</a> For day and night you tormented me;
you tried to destroy me in the intense heat of summer. (Selah)

<a name="32:5">32:5</a> Then I confessed my sin;
I no longer covered up my wrongdoing.
I said, “I will confess my rebellious acts to the Lord.”
And then you forgave my sins. (Selah)

<a name="32:6">32:6</a> For this reason every one of your faithful followers should pray to you
while there is a window of opportunity.
Certainly when the surging water rises,
it will not reach them.

<a name="32:7">32:7</a> You are my hiding place;
you protect me from distress.
You surround me with shouts of joy from those celebrating deliverance. (Selah)

<a name="32:8">32:8</a> I will instruct and teach you about how you should live.
I will advise you as I look you in the eye.

<a name="32:9">32:9</a> Do not be like a stupid horse or mule,
which will not obey you
unless they are controlled by a bridle and bit.

<a name="32:10">32:10</a> An evil person suffers much pain,
but the Lord’s faithfulness overwhelms the one who trusts in him.

<a name="32:11">32:11</a> Rejoice in the Lord and be happy, you who are godly!
Shout for joy, all you who are morally upright!