---
title: 34
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


Written by David, when he pretended to be insane before Abimelech, causing the king to send him away.

<a name="34:1">34:1</a> I will praise the Lord at all times;
my mouth will continually praise him.

<a name="34:2">34:2</a> I will boast in the Lord;
let the oppressed hear and rejoice!

<a name="34:3">34:3</a> Magnify the Lord with me!
Let’s praise his name together!

<a name="34:4">34:4</a> I sought the Lord’s help and he answered me;
he delivered me from all my fears.

<a name="34:5">34:5</a> Those who look to him for help are happy;
their faces are not ashamed.

<a name="34:6">34:6</a> This oppressed man cried out and the Lord heard;
he saved him from all his troubles.

<a name="34:7">34:7</a> The Lord’s angel camps around
the Lord’s loyal followers and delivers them.

<a name="34:8">34:8</a> Taste and see that the Lord is good!
How happy is the one who takes shelter in him!

<a name="34:9">34:9</a> Remain loyal to the Lord, you chosen people of his,
for his loyal followers lack nothing!

<a name="34:10">34:10</a> Even young lions sometimes lack food and are hungry,
but those who seek the Lord lack no good thing.

<a name="34:11">34:11</a> Come children! Listen to me!
I will teach you what it means to fear the Lord.

<a name="34:12">34:12</a> Do you want to really live?
Would you love to live a long, happy life?

<a name="34:13">34:13</a> Then make sure you don’t speak evil words
or use deceptive speech!

<a name="34:14">34:14</a> Turn away from evil and do what is right!
Strive for peace and promote it!

<a name="34:15">34:15</a> The Lord pays attention to the godly
and hears their cry for help.

<a name="34:16">34:16</a> But the Lord opposes evildoers
and wipes out all memory of them from the earth.

<a name="34:17">34:17</a> The godly cry out and the Lord hears;
he saves them from all their troubles.

<a name="34:18">34:18</a> The Lord is near the brokenhearted;
he delivers those who are discouraged.

<a name="34:19">34:19</a> The godly face many dangers,
but the Lord saves them from each one of them.

<a name="34:20">34:20</a> He protects all his bones;
not one of them is broken.

<a name="34:21">34:21</a> Evil people self-destruct;
those who hate the godly are punished.

<a name="34:22">34:22</a> The Lord rescues his servants;
all who take shelter in him escape punishment.