---
title: 40
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


For the music director; By David, a psalm.

<a name="40:1">40:1</a> I relied completely on the Lord,
and he turned toward me
and heard my cry for help.

<a name="40:2">40:2</a> He lifted me out of the watery pit,
out of the slimy mud.
He placed my feet on a rock
and gave me secure footing.

<a name="40:3">40:3</a> He gave me reason to sing a new song,
praising our God.
May many see what God has done,
so that they might swear allegiance to him and trust in the Lord!

<a name="40:4">40:4</a> How happy is the one who trusts in the Lord
and does not seek help from the proud or from liars!

<a name="40:5">40:5</a> O Lord, my God, you have accomplished many things;
you have done amazing things and carried out your purposes for us.
No one can thwart you!
I want to declare them and talk about them,
but they are too numerous to recount!

<a name="40:6">40:6</a> Receiving sacrifices and offerings are not your primary concern.
You make that quite clear to me!
You do not ask for burnt sacrifices and sin offerings.

<a name="40:7">40:7</a> Then I say,
“Look! I come!
What is written in the scroll pertains to me.

<a name="40:8">40:8</a> I want to do what pleases you, my God.
Your law dominates my thoughts.”

<a name="40:9">40:9</a> I have told the great assembly about your justice.
Look! I spare no words!
O Lord, you know this is true.

<a name="40:10">40:10</a> I have not failed to tell about your justice;
I spoke about your reliability and deliverance;
I have not neglected to tell the great assembly about your loyal love and faithfulness.

<a name="40:11">40:11</a> O Lord, you do not withhold your compassion from me.
May your loyal love and faithfulness continually protect me!

<a name="40:12">40:12</a> For innumerable dangers surround me.
My sins overtake me
so I am unable to see;
they outnumber the hairs of my head
so my strength fails me.

<a name="40:13">40:13</a> Please be willing, O Lord, to rescue me!
O Lord, hurry and help me!

<a name="40:14">40:14</a> May those who are trying to snatch away my life
be totally embarrassed and ashamed!
May those who want to harm me
be turned back and ashamed!

<a name="40:15">40:15</a> May those who say to me, “Aha! Aha!”
be humiliated and disgraced!

<a name="40:16">40:16</a> May all those who seek you be happy and rejoice in you!
May those who love to experience your deliverance say continually,
“May the Lord be praised!”

<a name="40:17">40:17</a> I am oppressed and needy!
May the sovereign Master pay attention to me!
You are my helper and my deliverer!
O my God, do not delay!