---
title: 42
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


For the music director; a well-written song by the Korahites.


<a name="42:1">42:1</a> As a deer longs for streams of water,
so I long for you, O God!

<a name="42:2">42:2</a> I thirst for God,
for the living God.
I say, “When will I be able to go and appear in God’s presence?”

<a name="42:3">42:3</a> I cannot eat, I weep day and night;
all day long they say to me, “Where is your God?”

<a name="42:4">42:4</a> I will remember and weep!
For I was once walking along with the great throng to the temple of God,
shouting and giving thanks along with the crowd as we celebrated the holy festival.

<a name="42:5">42:5</a> Why are you depressed, O my soul?
Why are you upset?
Wait for God!
For I will again give thanks
to my God for his saving intervention.

<a name="42:6">42:6</a> I am depressed,
so I will pray to you while I am trapped here in the region of the upper Jordan,
from Hermon, from Mount Mizar.

<a name="42:7">42:7</a> One deep stream calls out to another at the sound of your waterfalls;
all your billows and waves overwhelm me.

<a name="42:8">42:8</a> By day the Lord decrees his loyal love,
and by night he gives me a song,
a prayer to the living God.

<a name="42:9">42:9</a> I will pray to God, my high ridge:
“Why do you ignore me?
Why must I walk around mourning
because my enemies oppress me?”

<a name="42:10">42:10</a> My enemies’ taunts cut into me to the bone,
as they say to me all day long, “Where is your God?”

<a name="42:11">42:11</a> Why are you depressed, O my soul?
Why are you upset?
Wait for God!
For I will again give thanks
to my God for his saving intervention.