---
title: 60
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


For the music director; according to the shushan-eduth style; a prayer of David written to instruct others. It was written when he fought against Aram Naharaim and Aram-Zobah. That was when Joab turned back and struck down 12,000 Edomites in the Valley of Salt.


<a name="60:1">60:1</a> O God, you have rejected us.
You suddenly turned on us in your anger.
Please restore us!

<a name="60:2">60:2</a> You made the earth quake; you split it open.
Repair its breaches, for it is ready to fall.

<a name="60:3">60:3</a> You have made your people experience hard times;
you have made us drink intoxicating wine.

<a name="60:4">60:4</a> You have given your loyal followers a rallying flag,
so that they might seek safety from the bow. (Selah)

<a name="60:5">60:5</a> Deliver by your power and answer me,
so that the ones you love may be safe.

<a name="60:6">60:6</a> God has spoken in his sanctuary:
“I will triumph! I will parcel out Shechem;
the Valley of Succoth I will measure off.

<a name="60:7">60:7</a> Gilead belongs to me,
as does Manasseh!
Ephraim is my helmet,
Judah my royal scepter.

<a name="60:8">60:8</a> Moab is my washbasin.
I will make Edom serve me.
I will shout in triumph over Philistia.”

<a name="60:9">60:9</a> Who will lead me into the fortified city?
Who will bring me to Edom?

<a name="60:10">60:10</a> Have you not rejected us, O God?
O God, you do not go into battle with our armies.

<a name="60:11">60:11</a> Give us help against the enemy,
for any help men might offer is futile.

<a name="60:12">60:12</a> By God’s power we will conquer;
he will trample down our enemies.