---
title: 74
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


A well-written song by Asaph.

<a name="74:1">74:1</a> Why, O God, have you permanently rejected us?
Why does your anger burn against the sheep of your pasture?

<a name="74:2">74:2</a> Remember your people whom you acquired in ancient times,
whom you rescued so they could be your very own nation,
as well as Mount Zion, where you dwell!

<a name="74:3">74:3</a> Hurry and look at the permanent ruins,
and all the damage the enemy has done to the temple!

<a name="74:4">74:4</a> Your enemies roar in the middle of your sanctuary;
they set up their battle flags.

<a name="74:5">74:5</a> They invade like lumberjacks
swinging their axes in a thick forest.

<a name="74:6">74:6</a> And now they are tearing down all its engravings
with axes and crowbars.

<a name="74:7">74:7</a> They set your sanctuary on fire;
they desecrate your dwelling place by knocking it to the ground.

<a name="74:8">74:8</a> They say to themselves,
“We will oppress all of them.”
They burn down all the places where people worship God in the land.

<a name="74:9">74:9</a> We do not see any signs of God’s presence;
there are no longer any prophets
and we have no one to tell us how long this will last.

<a name="74:10">74:10</a> How long, O God, will the adversary hurl insults?
Will the enemy blaspheme your name forever?

<a name="74:11">74:11</a> Why do you remain inactive?
Intervene and destroy him!

<a name="74:12">74:12</a> But God has been my king from ancient times,
performing acts of deliverance on the earth.

<a name="74:13">74:13</a> You destroyed the sea by your strength;
you shattered the heads of the sea monster in the water.

<a name="74:14">74:14</a> You crushed the heads of Leviathan;
you fed him to the people who live along the coast.

<a name="74:15">74:15</a> You broke open the spring and the stream;
you dried up perpetually flowing rivers.

<a name="74:16">74:16</a> You established the cycle of day and night;
you put the moon and sun in place.

<a name="74:17">74:17</a> You set up all the boundaries of the earth;
you created the cycle of summer and winter.

<a name="74:18">74:18</a> Remember how the enemy hurls insults, O Lord,
and how a foolish nation blasphemes your name!

<a name="74:19">74:19</a> Do not hand the life of your dove over to a wild animal!
Do not continue to disregard the lives of your oppressed people!

<a name="74:20">74:20</a> Remember your covenant promises,
for the dark regions of the earth are full of places where violence rules.

<a name="74:21">74:21</a> Do not let the afflicted be turned back in shame!
Let the oppressed and poor praise your name!

<a name="74:22">74:22</a> Rise up, O God! Defend your honor!
Remember how fools insult you all day long!

<a name="74:23">74:23</a> Do not disregard what your enemies say,
or the unceasing shouts of those who defy you.