---
title: 79
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


A psalm of Asaph.

<a name="79:1">79:1</a> O God, foreigners have invaded your chosen land;
they have polluted your holy temple
and turned Jerusalem into a heap of ruins.

<a name="79:2">79:2</a> They have given the corpses of your servants
to the birds of the sky;
the flesh of your loyal followers
to the beasts of the earth.

<a name="79:3">79:3</a> They have made their blood flow like water
all around Jerusalem, and there is no one to bury them.

<a name="79:4">79:4</a> We have become an object of disdain to our neighbors;
those who live on our borders taunt and insult us.

<a name="79:5">79:5</a> How long will this go on, O Lord?
Will you stay angry forever?
How long will your rage burn like fire?

<a name="79:6">79:6</a> Pour out your anger on the nations that do not acknowledge you,
on the kingdoms that do not pray to you!

<a name="79:7">79:7</a> For they have devoured Jacob
and destroyed his home.

<a name="79:8">79:8</a> Do not hold us accountable for the sins of earlier generations!
Quickly send your compassion our way,
for we are in serious trouble!

<a name="79:9">79:9</a> Help us, O God, our deliverer!
For the sake of your glorious reputation, rescue us!
Forgive our sins for the sake of your reputation!

<a name="79:10">79:10</a> Why should the nations say, “Where is their God?”
Before our very eyes may the shed blood of your servants
be avenged among the nations!

<a name="79:11">79:11</a> Listen to the painful cries of the prisoners!
Use your great strength to set free those condemned to die!

<a name="79:12">79:12</a> Pay back our neighbors in full!
May they be insulted the same way they insulted you, O sovereign Master!

<a name="79:13">79:13</a> Then we, your people, the sheep of your pasture,
will continually thank you.
We will tell coming generations of your praiseworthy acts.