---
title: 80
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


For the music director; according to the shushan-eduth style; a psalm of Asaph.

<a name="80:1">80:1</a> O shepherd of Israel, pay attention,
you who lead Joseph like a flock of sheep!
You who sit enthroned above the winged angels, reveal your splendor!

<a name="80:2">80:2</a> In the sight of Ephraim, Benjamin, and Manasseh reveal your power!
Come and deliver us!

<a name="80:3">80:3</a> O God, restore us!
Smile on us! Then we will be delivered!

<a name="80:4">80:4</a> O Lord God, invincible warrior!
How long will you remain angry at your people while they pray to you?

<a name="80:5">80:5</a> You have given them tears as food;
you have made them drink tears by the measure.

<a name="80:6">80:6</a> You have made our neighbors dislike us,
and our enemies insult us.

<a name="80:7">80:7</a> O God, invincible warrior, restore us!
Smile on us! Then we will be delivered!

<a name="80:8">80:8</a> You uprooted a vine from Egypt;
you drove out nations and transplanted it.

<a name="80:9">80:9</a> You cleared the ground for it;
it took root,
and filled the land.

<a name="80:10">80:10</a> The mountains were covered by its shadow,
the highest cedars by its branches.

<a name="80:11">80:11</a> Its branches reached the Mediterranean Sea,
and its shoots the Euphrates River.

<a name="80:12">80:12</a> Why did you break down its walls,
so that all who pass by pluck its fruit?

<a name="80:13">80:13</a> The wild boars of the forest ruin it;
the insects of the field feed on it.

<a name="80:14">80:14</a> O God, invincible warrior, come back!
Look down from heaven and take notice!
Take care of this vine,

<a name="80:15">80:15</a> the root your right hand planted,
the shoot you made to grow!

<a name="80:16">80:16</a> It is burned and cut down.
They die because you are displeased with them.

<a name="80:17">80:17</a> May you give support to the one you have chosen,
to the one whom you raised up for yourself!

<a name="80:18">80:18</a> Then we will not turn away from you.
Revive us and we will pray to you!

<a name="80:19">80:19</a> O Lord God, invincible warrior, restore us!
Smile on us! Then we will be delivered!