---
title: 86
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


A prayer of David.

<a name="86:1">86:1</a> Listen O Lord! Answer me!
For I am oppressed and needy.

<a name="86:2">86:2</a> Protect me, for I am loyal!
O my God, deliver your servant, who trusts in you!

<a name="86:3">86:3</a> Have mercy on me, O sovereign Master,
for I cry out to you all day long!

<a name="86:4">86:4</a> Make your servant glad,
for to you, O sovereign Master, I pray!

<a name="86:5">86:5</a> Certainly O sovereign Master, you are kind and forgiving,
and show great faithfulness to all who cry out to you.

<a name="86:6">86:6</a> O Lord, hear my prayer!
Pay attention to my plea for mercy!

<a name="86:7">86:7</a> In my time of trouble I cry out to you,
for you will answer me.

<a name="86:8">86:8</a> None can compare to you among the gods, O sovereign Master!
Your exploits are incomparable!

<a name="86:9">86:9</a> All the nations, whom you created,
will come and worship you, O sovereign Master.
They will honor your name.

<a name="86:10">86:10</a> For you are great and do amazing things.
You alone are God.

<a name="86:11">86:11</a> O Lord, teach me how you want me to live!
Then I will obey your commands.
Make me wholeheartedly committed to you!

<a name="86:12">86:12</a> O sovereign Master, my God, I will give you thanks with my whole heart!
I will honor your name continually!

<a name="86:13">86:13</a> For you will extend your great loyal love to me,
and will deliver my life from the depths of Sheol.

<a name="86:14">86:14</a> O God, arrogant men attack me;
a gang of ruthless men, who do not respect you, seek my life.

<a name="86:15">86:15</a> But you, O sovereign Master, are a compassionate and merciful God.
You are patient and demonstrate great loyal love and faithfulness.

<a name="86:16">86:16</a> Turn toward me and have mercy on me!
Give your servant your strength!
Deliver your slave!

<a name="86:17">86:17</a> Show me evidence of your favor!
Then those who hate me will see it and be ashamed,
for you, O Lord, will help me and comfort me.