---
title: 9
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


For the music director; according to the alumoth-labben style; a psalm of David.

<a name="9:1">9:1</a> I will thank the Lord with all my heart!
I will tell about all your amazing deeds!

<a name="9:2">9:2</a> I will be happy and rejoice in you!
I will sing praises to you, O Sovereign One!

<a name="9:3">9:3</a> When my enemies turn back,
they trip and are defeated before you.

<a name="9:4">9:4</a> For you defended my just cause;
from your throne you pronounced a just decision.

<a name="9:5">9:5</a> You terrified the nations with your battle cry;
you destroyed the wicked;
you permanently wiped out all memory of them.

<a name="9:6">9:6</a> The enemy’s cities have been reduced to permanent ruins;
you destroyed their cities;
all memory of the enemies has perished.

<a name="9:7">9:7</a> But the Lord rules forever;
he reigns in a just manner.

<a name="9:8">9:8</a> He judges the world fairly;
he makes just legal decisions for the nations.

<a name="9:9">9:9</a> Consequently the Lord provides safety for the oppressed;
he provides safety in times of trouble.

<a name="9:10">9:10</a> Those who are loyal to you trust in you,
for you, Lord, do not abandon those who seek your help.

<a name="9:11">9:11</a> Sing praises to the Lord, who rules in Zion!
Tell the nations what he has done!

<a name="9:12">9:12</a> For the one who takes revenge against murderers took notice of the oppressed;
he did not overlook their cry for help

<a name="9:13">9:13</a> when they prayed:
“Have mercy on me, Lord!
See how I am oppressed by those who hate me,
O one who can snatch me away from the gates of death!

<a name="9:14">9:14</a> Then I will tell about all your praiseworthy acts;
in the gates of Daughter Zion I will rejoice because of your deliverance.”

<a name="9:15">9:15</a> The nations fell into the pit they had made;
their feet were caught in the net they had hidden.

<a name="9:16">9:16</a> The Lord revealed himself;
he accomplished justice;
the wicked were ensnared by their own actions. (Higgaion. Selah)

<a name="9:17">9:17</a> The wicked are turned back and sent to Sheol;
this is the destiny of all the nations that ignore God,

<a name="9:18">9:18</a> for the needy are not permanently ignored,
the hopes of the oppressed are not forever dashed.

<a name="9:19">9:19</a> Rise up, Lord!
Don’t let men be defiant!
May the nations be judged in your presence!

<a name="9:20">9:20</a> Terrify them, Lord!
Let the nations know they are mere mortals! (Selah)