---
title: 92
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


A psalm; a song for the Sabbath day.


<a name="92:1">92:1</a> It is fitting to thank the Lord,
and to sing praises to your name, O Sovereign One!

<a name="92:2">92:2</a> It is fitting to proclaim your loyal love in the morning,
and your faithfulness during the night,

<a name="92:3">92:3</a> to the accompaniment of a ten-stringed instrument and a lyre,
to the accompaniment of the meditative tone of the harp.

<a name="92:4">92:4</a> For you, O Lord, have made me happy by your work.
I will sing for joy because of what you have done.

<a name="92:5">92:5</a> How great are your works, O Lord!
Your plans are very intricate!

<a name="92:6">92:6</a> The spiritually insensitive do not recognize this;
the fool does not understand this.

<a name="92:7">92:7</a> When the wicked sprout up like grass,
and all the evildoers glisten,
it is so that they may be annihilated.

<a name="92:8">92:8</a> But you, O Lord, reign forever!

<a name="92:9">92:9</a> Indeed, look at your enemies, O Lord!
Indeed, look at how your enemies perish!
All the evildoers are scattered!

<a name="92:10">92:10</a> You exalt my horn like that of a wild ox.
I am covered with fresh oil.

<a name="92:11">92:11</a> I gloat in triumph over those who tried to ambush me;
I hear the defeated cries of the evil foes who attacked me.

<a name="92:12">92:12</a> The godly grow like a palm tree;
they grow high like a cedar in Lebanon.

<a name="92:13">92:13</a> Planted in the Lord’s house,
they grow in the courts of our God.

<a name="92:14">92:14</a> They bear fruit even when they are old;
they are filled with vitality and have many leaves.

<a name="92:15">92:15</a> So they proclaim that the Lord, my protector,
is just and never unfair.