---
title: 7
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


A musical composition by David, which he sang to the Lord concerning a Benjaminite named Cush.

<a name="7:1">7:1</a> O Lord my God, in you I have taken shelter.
Deliver me from all who chase me! Rescue me!

<a name="7:2">7:2</a> Otherwise they will rip me to shreds like a lion;
they will tear me to bits and no one will be able to rescue me.

<a name="7:3">7:3</a> O Lord my God, if I have done what they say,
or am guilty of unjust actions,

<a name="7:4">7:4</a> or have wronged my ally,
or helped his lawless enemy,

<a name="7:5">7:5</a> may an enemy relentlessly chase me and catch me;
may he trample me to death
and leave me lying humiliated in the dust. (Selah)

<a name="7:6">7:6</a> Rise up angrily, Lord!
Spring into action with raging fury against my enemies!
Intervene for my sake and execute the judgment you have decreed for them!

<a name="7:7">7:7</a> The countries are assembled all around you;
take once more your rightful place over them!

<a name="7:8">7:8</a> The Lord judges the nations.
Vindicate me, Lord, because I am innocent,
because I am blameless, O Exalted One!

<a name="7:9">7:9</a> May the evil deeds of the wicked come to an end!
But make the innocent secure,
O just God,
you who examine inner thoughts and motives!

<a name="7:10">7:10</a> The Exalted God is my shield,
the one who delivers the morally upright.

<a name="7:11">7:11</a> God is a just judge;
he executes judgment throughout the day.

<a name="7:12">7:12</a> If a person does not repent, God sharpens his sword
and prepares to shoot his bow.

<a name="7:13">7:13</a> He prepares to use deadly weapons against him;
he gets ready to shoot flaming arrows.

<a name="7:14">7:14</a> See the one who is pregnant with wickedness,
who conceives destructive plans,
and gives birth to harmful lies — 

<a name="7:15">7:15</a> he digs a pit
and then falls into the hole he has made.

<a name="7:16">7:16</a> He becomes the victim of his own destructive plans
and experiences the violence he intended for others.

<a name="7:17">7:17</a> I will thank the Lord for his justice;
I will sing praises to the Sovereign Lord!