---
title: 31
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


For the music director; a psalm of David.

<a name="31:1">31:1</a> In you, O Lord, I have taken shelter!
Never let me be humiliated!
Vindicate me by rescuing me!

<a name="31:2">31:2</a> Listen to me!
Quickly deliver me!
Be my protector and refuge,
a stronghold where I can be safe!

<a name="31:3">31:3</a> For you are my high ridge and my stronghold;
for the sake of your own reputation you lead me and guide me.

<a name="31:4">31:4</a> You will free me from the net they hid for me,
for you are my place of refuge.

<a name="31:5">31:5</a> Into your hand I entrust my life;
you will rescue me, O Lord, the faithful God.

<a name="31:6">31:6</a> I hate those who serve worthless idols,
but I trust in the Lord.

<a name="31:7">31:7</a> I will be happy and rejoice in your faithfulness,
because you notice my pain
and you are aware of how distressed I am.

<a name="31:8">31:8</a> You do not deliver me over to the power of the enemy;
you enable me to stand in a wide open place.

<a name="31:9">31:9</a> Have mercy on me, for I am in distress!
My eyes grow dim from suffering.
I have lost my strength.

<a name="31:10">31:10</a> For my life nears its end in pain;
my years draw to a close as I groan.
My strength fails me because of my sin,
and my bones become brittle.

<a name="31:11">31:11</a> Because of all my enemies, people disdain me;
my neighbors are appalled by my suffering — 
those who know me are horrified by my condition;
those who see me in the street run away from me.

<a name="31:12">31:12</a> I am forgotten, like a dead man no one thinks about;
I am regarded as worthless, like a broken jar.

<a name="31:13">31:13</a> For I hear what so many are saying,
the terrifying news that comes from every direction.
When they plot together against me,
they figure out how they can take my life.

<a name="31:14">31:14</a> But I trust in you, O Lord!
I declare, “You are my God!”

<a name="31:15">31:15</a> You determine my destiny!
Rescue me from the power of my enemies and those who chase me.

<a name="31:16">31:16</a> Smile on your servant!
Deliver me because of your faithfulness!

<a name="31:17">31:17</a> O Lord, do not let me be humiliated,
for I call out to you!
May evil men be humiliated!
May they go wailing to the grave!

<a name="31:18">31:18</a> May lying lips be silenced — 
lips that speak defiantly against the innocent
with arrogance and contempt!

<a name="31:19">31:19</a> How great is your favor,
which you store up for your loyal followers!
In plain sight of everyone you bestow it on those who take shelter in you.

<a name="31:20">31:20</a> You hide them with you, where they are safe from the attacks of men;
you conceal them in a shelter, where they are safe from slanderous attacks.

<a name="31:21">31:21</a> The Lord deserves praise
for he demonstrated his amazing faithfulness to me when I was besieged by enemies.

<a name="31:22">31:22</a> I jumped to conclusions and said,
“I am cut off from your presence!”
But you heard my plea for mercy when I cried out to you for help.

<a name="31:23">31:23</a> Love the Lord, all you faithful followers of his!
The Lord protects those who have integrity,
but he pays back in full the one who acts arrogantly.

<a name="31:24">31:24</a> Be strong and confident,
all you who wait on the Lord!