---
title: 33
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


<a name="33:1">33:1</a> You godly ones, shout for joy because of the Lord!
It is appropriate for the morally upright to offer him praise.

<a name="33:2">33:2</a> Give thanks to the Lord with the harp!
Sing to him to the accompaniment of a ten-stringed instrument!

<a name="33:3">33:3</a> Sing to him a new song!
Play skillfully as you shout out your praises to him!

<a name="33:4">33:4</a> For the Lord’s decrees are just,
and everything he does is fair.

<a name="33:5">33:5</a> The Lord promotes equity and justice;
the Lord’s faithfulness extends throughout the earth.

<a name="33:6">33:6</a> By the Lord’s decree the heavens were made;
by a mere word from his mouth all the stars in the sky were created.

<a name="33:7">33:7</a> He piles up the water of the sea;
he puts the oceans in storehouses.

<a name="33:8">33:8</a> Let the whole earth fear the Lord!
Let all who live in the world stand in awe of him!

<a name="33:9">33:9</a> For he spoke, and it came into existence,
he issued the decree, and it stood firm.

<a name="33:10">33:10</a> The Lord frustrates the decisions of the nations;
he nullifies the plans of the peoples.

<a name="33:11">33:11</a> The Lord’s decisions stand forever;
his plans abide throughout the ages.

<a name="33:12">33:12</a> How happy is the nation whose God is the Lord,
the people whom he has chosen to be his special possession.

<a name="33:13">33:13</a> The Lord watches from heaven;
he sees all people.

<a name="33:14">33:14</a> From the place where he lives he looks carefully
at all the earth’s inhabitants.

<a name="33:15">33:15</a> He is the one who forms every human heart,
and takes note of all their actions.

<a name="33:16">33:16</a> No king is delivered by his vast army;
a warrior is not saved by his great might.

<a name="33:17">33:17</a> A horse disappoints those who trust in it for victory;
despite its great strength, it cannot deliver.

<a name="33:18">33:18</a> Look, the Lord takes notice of his loyal followers,
those who wait for him to demonstrate his faithfulness

<a name="33:19">33:19</a> by saving their lives from death
and sustaining them during times of famine.

<a name="33:20">33:20</a> We wait for the Lord;
he is our deliverer and shield.

<a name="33:21">33:21</a> For our hearts rejoice in him,
for we trust in his holy name.

<a name="33:22">33:22</a> May we experience your faithfulness, O Lord,
for we wait for you.