---
title: 49
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


For the music director, a psalm by the Korahites.


<a name="49:1">49:1</a> Listen to this, all you nations!
Pay attention, all you inhabitants of the world!

<a name="49:2">49:2</a> Pay attention, all you people,
both rich and poor!

<a name="49:3">49:3</a> I will declare a wise saying;
I will share my profound thoughts.

<a name="49:4">49:4</a> I will learn a song that imparts wisdom;
I will then sing my insightful song to the accompaniment of a harp.

<a name="49:5">49:5</a> Why should I be afraid in times of trouble,
when the sinful deeds of deceptive men threaten to overwhelm me?

<a name="49:6">49:6</a> They trust in their wealth
and boast in their great riches.

<a name="49:7">49:7</a> Certainly a man cannot rescue his brother;
he cannot pay God an adequate ransom price

<a name="49:8">49:8</a> (the ransom price for a human life is too high,
and people go to their final destiny),

<a name="49:9">49:9</a> so that he might continue to live forever
and not experience death.

<a name="49:10">49:10</a> Surely one sees that even wise people die;
fools and spiritually insensitive people all pass away
and leave their wealth to others.

<a name="49:11">49:11</a> Their grave becomes their permanent residence,
their eternal dwelling place.
They name their lands after themselves,

<a name="49:12">49:12</a> but, despite their wealth, people do not last,
they are like animals that perish.

<a name="49:13">49:13</a> This is the destiny of fools,
and of those who approve of their philosophy. (Selah)

<a name="49:14">49:14</a> They will travel to Sheol like sheep,
with death as their shepherd.
The godly will rule over them when the day of vindication dawns;
Sheol will consume their bodies and they will no longer live in impressive houses.

<a name="49:15">49:15</a> But God will rescue my life from the power of Sheol;
certainly he will pull me to safety. (Selah)

<a name="49:16">49:16</a> Do not be afraid when a man becomes rich
and his wealth multiplies!

<a name="49:17">49:17</a> For he will take nothing with him when he dies;
his wealth will not follow him down into the grave.

<a name="49:18">49:18</a> He pronounces this blessing on himself while he is alive:
“May men praise you, for you have done well!”

<a name="49:19">49:19</a> But he will join his ancestors;
they will never again see the light of day.

<a name="49:20">49:20</a> Wealthy people do not understand;
they are like animals that perish.