---
title: 50
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


A psalm by Asaph.


<a name="50:1">50:1</a> El, God, the Lord speaks,
and summons the earth to come from the east and west.

<a name="50:2">50:2</a> From Zion, the most beautiful of all places,
God comes in splendor.

<a name="50:3">50:3</a> Our God approaches and is not silent;
consuming fire goes ahead of him
and all around him a storm rages.

<a name="50:4">50:4</a> He summons the heavens above,
as well as the earth, so that he might judge his people.

<a name="50:5">50:5</a> He says:
“Assemble my covenant people before me,
those who ratified a covenant with me by sacrifice!”

<a name="50:6">50:6</a> The heavens declare his fairness,
for God is judge. (Selah)

<a name="50:7">50:7</a> He says:
“Listen my people! I am speaking!
Listen Israel! I am accusing you!
I am God, your God!

<a name="50:8">50:8</a> I am not condemning you because of your sacrifices,
or because of your burnt sacrifices that you continually offer me.

<a name="50:9">50:9</a> I do not need to take a bull from your household
or goats from your sheepfolds.

<a name="50:10">50:10</a> For every wild animal in the forest belongs to me,
as well as the cattle that graze on a thousand hills.

<a name="50:11">50:11</a> I keep track of every bird in the hills,
and the insects of the field are mine.

<a name="50:12">50:12</a> Even if I were hungry, I would not tell you,
for the world and all it contains belong to me.

<a name="50:13">50:13</a> Do I eat the flesh of bulls?
Do I drink the blood of goats?

<a name="50:14">50:14</a> Present to God a thank-offering!
Repay your vows to the Sovereign One!

<a name="50:15">50:15</a> Pray to me when you are in trouble!
I will deliver you and vindicate you!”

<a name="50:16">50:16</a> God says this to the evildoer:
“How can you declare my commands,
and talk about my covenant?

<a name="50:17">50:17</a> For you hate instruction
and reject my words.

<a name="50:18">50:18</a> When you see a thief, you join him;
you associate with men who are unfaithful to their wives.

<a name="50:19">50:19</a> You do damage with words,
and use your tongue to deceive.

<a name="50:20">50:20</a> You plot against your brother;
you slander your own brother.

<a name="50:21">50:21</a> When you did these things, I was silent,
so you thought I was exactly like you.
But now I will condemn you
and state my case against you!

<a name="50:22">50:22</a> Carefully consider this, you who reject God!
Otherwise I will rip you to shreds
and no one will be able to rescue you.

<a name="50:23">50:23</a> Whoever presents a thank-offering honors me.
To whoever obeys my commands, I will reveal my power to deliver.”