---
title: 51
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


For the music director; a psalm of David, written when Nathan the prophet confronted him after David’s affair with Bathsheba.


<a name="51:1">51:1</a> Have mercy on me, O God, because of your loyal love!
Because of your great compassion, wipe away my rebellious acts!

<a name="51:2">51:2</a> Scrub away my wrongdoing!
Cleanse me of my sin!

<a name="51:3">51:3</a> For I am aware of my rebellious acts;
I am forever conscious of my sin.

<a name="51:4">51:4</a> Against you, especially you, I have sinned;
I have done what is sinful in your sight.
So you are just when you confront me;
you are right when you condemn me.

<a name="51:5">51:5</a> Look, I was prone to do wrong from birth;
I was a sinner the moment my mother conceived me.

<a name="51:6">51:6</a> Look, you desire integrity in the inner man;
you want me to possess wisdom.

<a name="51:7">51:7</a> Sprinkle me with water and I will be pure;
wash me and I will be whiter than snow.

<a name="51:8">51:8</a> Give me the ecstatic joy of being forgiven!
May the bones you crushed rejoice!

<a name="51:9">51:9</a> Hide your face from my sins!
Wipe away all my wrong acts!

<a name="51:10">51:10</a> Create for me a pure heart!
Transform me and give me integrity!

<a name="51:11">51:11</a> Do not reject me!
Do not take your Holy Spirit away from me!

<a name="51:12">51:12</a> Let me again experience the joy of your deliverance!
Sustain me by giving me the desire to obey!

<a name="51:13">51:13</a> Then I will teach rebels your merciful ways,
and sinners will turn to you.

<a name="51:14">51:14</a> Rescue me from the guilt of murder, O God, the God who delivers me!
Then my tongue will shout for joy because of your deliverance.

<a name="51:15">51:15</a> O sovereign Master, give me reason to celebrate!
Then my mouth will praise you.

<a name="51:16">51:16</a> Certainly you do not want a sacrifice, or else I would offer it;
you do not desire a burnt sacrifice.

<a name="51:17">51:17</a> The “sacrifices” God desires are a humble attitude — 
O God, a humble and repentant heart you will not reject.

<a name="51:18">51:18</a> Be favorably disposed to Zion!
Build the walls of Jerusalem!

<a name="51:19">51:19</a> Then you will accept the proper sacrifices, burnt sacrifices and whole offerings;
then bulls will be sacrificed on your altar.