---
title: 59
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


For the music director; according to the al-tashcheth style; a prayer of David, written when Saul sent men to surround his house and murder him.


<a name="59:1">59:1</a> Deliver me from my enemies, my God!
Protect me from those who attack me!

<a name="59:2">59:2</a> Deliver me from evildoers!
Rescue me from violent men!

<a name="59:3">59:3</a> For look, they wait to ambush me;
powerful men stalk me,
but not because I have rebelled or sinned, O Lord.

<a name="59:4">59:4</a> Though I have done nothing wrong, they are anxious to attack.
Spring into action and help me! Take notice of me!

<a name="59:5">59:5</a> You, O Lord God, the invincible warrior, the God of Israel,
rouse yourself and punish all the nations!
Have no mercy on any treacherous evildoers! (Selah)

<a name="59:6">59:6</a> They return in the evening;
they growl like a dog
and prowl around outside the city.

<a name="59:7">59:7</a> Look, they hurl insults at me
and openly threaten to kill me,
for they say,
“Who hears?”

<a name="59:8">59:8</a> But you, O Lord, laugh in disgust at them;
you taunt all the nations.

<a name="59:9">59:9</a> You are my source of strength! I will wait for you!
For God is my refuge.

<a name="59:10">59:10</a> The God who loves me will help me;
God will enable me to triumph over my enemies.

<a name="59:11">59:11</a> Do not strike them dead suddenly,
because then my people might forget the lesson.
Use your power to make them homeless vagabonds and then bring them down,
O sovereign Master who shields us!

<a name="59:12">59:12</a> They speak sinful words.
So let them be trapped by their own pride
and by the curses and lies they speak!

<a name="59:13">59:13</a> Angrily wipe them out! Wipe them out so they vanish!
Let them know that God rules
in Jacob and to the ends of the earth! (Selah)

<a name="59:14">59:14</a> They return in the evening;
they growl like a dog
and prowl around outside the city.

<a name="59:15">59:15</a> They wander around looking for something to eat;
they refuse to sleep until they are full.

<a name="59:16">59:16</a> As for me, I will sing about your strength;
I will praise your loyal love in the morning.
For you are my refuge
and my place of shelter when I face trouble.

<a name="59:17">59:17</a> You are my source of strength! I will sing praises to you!
For God is my refuge, the God who loves me.