---
title: 68
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


For the music director; by David, a psalm, a song.


<a name="68:1">68:1</a> God springs into action!
His enemies scatter;
his adversaries run from him.

<a name="68:2">68:2</a> As smoke is driven away by the wind, so you drive them away.
As wax melts before fire,
so the wicked are destroyed before God.

<a name="68:3">68:3</a> But the godly are happy;
they rejoice before God
and are overcome with joy.

<a name="68:4">68:4</a> Sing to God! Sing praises to his name!
Exalt the one who rides on the clouds!
For the Lord is his name!
Rejoice before him!

<a name="68:5">68:5</a> He is a father to the fatherless
and an advocate for widows.
God rules from his holy palace.

<a name="68:6">68:6</a> God settles those who have been deserted in their own homes;
he frees prisoners and grants them prosperity.
But sinful rebels live in the desert.

<a name="68:7">68:7</a> O God, when you lead your people into battle,
when you march through the desert, (Selah)

<a name="68:8">68:8</a> the earth shakes,
yes, the heavens pour down rain
before God, the God of Sinai,
before God, the God of Israel.

<a name="68:9">68:9</a> O God, you cause abundant showers to fall on your chosen people.
When they are tired, you sustain them,

<a name="68:10">68:10</a> for you live among them.
You sustain the oppressed with your good blessings, O God.

<a name="68:11">68:11</a> The sovereign Master speaks;
many, many women spread the good news.

<a name="68:12">68:12</a> Kings leading armies run away — they run away!
The lovely lady of the house divides up the loot.

<a name="68:13">68:13</a> When you lie down among the sheepfolds,
the wings of the dove are covered with silver
and with glittering gold.

<a name="68:14">68:14</a> When the sovereign judge scatters kings,
let it snow on Zalmon!

<a name="68:15">68:15</a> The mountain of Bashan is a towering mountain;
the mountain of Bashan is a mountain with many peaks.

<a name="68:16">68:16</a> Why do you look with envy, O mountains with many peaks,
at the mountain where God has decided to live?
Indeed the Lord will live there permanently!

<a name="68:17">68:17</a> God has countless chariots;
they number in the thousands.
The sovereign Master comes from Sinai in holy splendor.

<a name="68:18">68:18</a> You ascend on high,
you have taken many captives.
You receive tribute from men,
including even sinful rebels.
Indeed the Lord God lives there!

<a name="68:19">68:19</a> The sovereign Master deserves praise!
Day after day he carries our burden,
the God who delivers us. (Selah)

<a name="68:20">68:20</a> Our God is a God who delivers;
the Lord, the sovereign Master, can rescue from death.

<a name="68:21">68:21</a> Indeed God strikes the heads of his enemies,
the hairy foreheads of those who persist in rebellion.

<a name="68:22">68:22</a> The sovereign Master says,
“I will retrieve them from Bashan,
I will bring them back from the depths of the sea,

<a name="68:23">68:23</a> so that your feet may stomp in their blood,
and your dogs may eat their portion of the enemies’ corpses.”

<a name="68:24">68:24</a> They see your processions, O God — 
the processions of my God, my king, who marches along in holy splendor.

<a name="68:25">68:25</a> Singers walk in front;
musicians follow playing their stringed instruments,
in the midst of young women playing tambourines.

<a name="68:26">68:26</a> In your large assemblies praise God,
the sovereign Master, in the assemblies of Israel!

<a name="68:27">68:27</a> There is little Benjamin, their ruler,
and the princes of Judah in their robes,
along with the princes of Zebulun and the princes of Naphtali.

<a name="68:28">68:28</a> God has decreed that you will be powerful.
O God, you who have acted on our behalf, demonstrate your power,

<a name="68:29">68:29</a> as you come out of your temple in Jerusalem!
Kings bring tribute to you.

<a name="68:30">68:30</a> Sound your battle cry against the wild beast of the reeds,
and the nations that assemble like a herd of calves led by bulls!
They humble themselves and offer gold and silver as tribute.
God scatters the nations that like to do battle.

<a name="68:31">68:31</a> They come with red cloth from Egypt,
Ethiopia voluntarily offers tribute to God.

<a name="68:32">68:32</a> O kingdoms of the earth, sing to God!
Sing praises to the sovereign Master, (Selah)

<a name="68:33">68:33</a> to the one who rides through the sky from ancient times!
Look! He thunders loudly.

<a name="68:34">68:34</a> Acknowledge God’s power,
his sovereignty over Israel,
and the power he reveals in the skies!

<a name="68:35">68:35</a> You are awe-inspiring, O God, as you emerge from your holy temple!
It is the God of Israel who gives the people power and strength.
God deserves praise!