---
title: 71
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


<a name="71:1">71:1</a> In you, O Lord, I have taken shelter!
Never let me be humiliated!

<a name="71:2">71:2</a> Vindicate me by rescuing me!
Listen to me! Deliver me!

<a name="71:3">71:3</a> Be my protector and refuge,
a stronghold where I can be safe!
For you are my high ridge and my stronghold.

<a name="71:4">71:4</a> My God, rescue me from the power of the wicked,
from the hand of the cruel oppressor!

<a name="71:5">71:5</a> For you give me confidence, O sovereign Master;
O Lord, I have trusted in you since I was young.

<a name="71:6">71:6</a> I have leaned on you since birth;
you pulled me from my mother’s womb.
I praise you continually.

<a name="71:7">71:7</a> Many are appalled when they see me,
but you are my secure shelter.

<a name="71:8">71:8</a> I praise you constantly
and speak of your splendor all day long.

<a name="71:9">71:9</a> Do not reject me in my old age!
When my strength fails, do not abandon me!

<a name="71:10">71:10</a> For my enemies talk about me;
those waiting for a chance to kill me plot my demise.

<a name="71:11">71:11</a> They say, “God has abandoned him.
Run and seize him, for there is no one who will rescue him!”

<a name="71:12">71:12</a> O God, do not remain far away from me!
My God, hurry and help me!

<a name="71:13">71:13</a> May my accusers be humiliated and defeated!
May those who want to harm me be covered with scorn and disgrace!

<a name="71:14">71:14</a> As for me, I will wait continually,
and will continue to praise you.

<a name="71:15">71:15</a> I will tell about your justice,
and all day long proclaim your salvation,
though I cannot fathom its full extent.

<a name="71:16">71:16</a> I will come and tell about the mighty acts of the sovereign Lord.
I will proclaim your justice — yours alone.

<a name="71:17">71:17</a> O God, you have taught me since I was young,
and I am still declaring your amazing deeds.

<a name="71:18">71:18</a> Even when I am old and gray,
O God, do not abandon me,
until I tell the next generation about your strength,
and those coming after me about your power.

<a name="71:19">71:19</a> Your justice, O God, extends to the skies above;
you have done great things.
O God, who can compare to you?

<a name="71:20">71:20</a> Though you have allowed me to experience much trouble and distress,
revive me once again!
Bring me up once again from the depths of the earth!

<a name="71:21">71:21</a> Raise me to a position of great honor!
Turn and comfort me!

<a name="71:22">71:22</a> I will express my thanks to you with a stringed instrument,
praising your faithfulness, O my God!
I will sing praises to you accompanied by a harp,
O sovereign king of Israel!

<a name="71:23">71:23</a> My lips will shout for joy! Yes, I will sing your praises!
I will praise you when you rescue me!

<a name="71:24">71:24</a> All day long my tongue will also tell about your justice,
for those who want to harm me will be embarrassed and ashamed.