---
title: 77
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


For the music director, Jeduthun; a psalm of Asaph.

<a name="77:1">77:1</a> I will cry out to God and call for help!
I will cry out to God and he will pay attention to me.

<a name="77:2">77:2</a> In my time of trouble I sought the sovereign Master.
I kept my hand raised in prayer throughout the night.
I refused to be comforted.

<a name="77:3">77:3</a> I said, “I will remember God while I groan;
I will think about him while my strength leaves me.” (Selah)

<a name="77:4">77:4</a> You held my eyelids open;
I was troubled and could not speak.

<a name="77:5">77:5</a> I thought about the days of old,
about ancient times.

<a name="77:6">77:6</a> I said, “During the night I will remember the song I once sang;
I will think very carefully.”
I tried to make sense of what was happening.

<a name="77:7">77:7</a> I asked, “Will the sovereign Master reject me forever?
Will he never again show me his favor?

<a name="77:8">77:8</a> Has his loyal love disappeared forever?
Has his promise failed forever?

<a name="77:9">77:9</a> Has God forgotten to be merciful?
Has his anger stifled his compassion?”

<a name="77:10">77:10</a> Then I said, “I am sickened by the thought
that the Sovereign One might become inactive.

<a name="77:11">77:11</a> I will remember the works of the Lord.
Yes, I will remember the amazing things you did long ago!

<a name="77:12">77:12</a> I will think about all you have done;
I will reflect upon your deeds!”

<a name="77:13">77:13</a> O God, your deeds are extraordinary!
What god can compare to our great God?

<a name="77:14">77:14</a> You are the God who does amazing things;
you have revealed your strength among the nations.

<a name="77:15">77:15</a> You delivered your people by your strength — 
the children of Jacob and Joseph. (Selah)

<a name="77:16">77:16</a> The waters saw you, O God,
the waters saw you and trembled.
Yes, the depths of the sea shook with fear.

<a name="77:17">77:17</a> The clouds poured down rain;
the skies thundered.
Yes, your arrows flashed about.

<a name="77:18">77:18</a> Your thunderous voice was heard in the wind;
the lightning bolts lit up the world;
the earth trembled and shook.

<a name="77:19">77:19</a> You walked through the sea;
you passed through the surging waters,
but left no footprints.

<a name="77:20">77:20</a> You led your people like a flock of sheep,
by the hand of Moses and Aaron.