---
title: 78
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


A well-written song by Asaph.

<a name="78:1">78:1</a> Pay attention, my people, to my instruction!
Listen to the words I speak!

<a name="78:2">78:2</a> I will sing a song that imparts wisdom;
I will make insightful observations about the past.

<a name="78:3">78:3</a> What we have heard and learned — 
that which our ancestors have told us — 

<a name="78:4">78:4</a> we will not hide from their descendants.
We will tell the next generation
about the Lord’s praiseworthy acts,
about his strength and the amazing things he has done.

<a name="78:5">78:5</a> He established a rule in Jacob;
he set up a law in Israel.
He commanded our ancestors
to make his deeds known to their descendants,

<a name="78:6">78:6</a> so that the next generation, children yet to be born,
might know about them.
They will grow up and tell their descendants about them.

<a name="78:7">78:7</a> Then they will place their confidence in God.
They will not forget the works of God,
and they will obey his commands.

<a name="78:8">78:8</a> Then they will not be like their ancestors,
who were a stubborn and rebellious generation,
a generation that was not committed
and faithful to God.

<a name="78:9">78:9</a> The Ephraimites were armed with bows,
but they retreated in the day of battle.

<a name="78:10">78:10</a> They did not keep their covenant with God,
and they refused to obey his law.

<a name="78:11">78:11</a> They forgot what he had done,
the amazing things he had shown them.

<a name="78:12">78:12</a> He did amazing things in the sight of their ancestors,
in the land of Egypt, in the region of Zoan.

<a name="78:13">78:13</a> He divided the sea and led them across it;
he made the water stand in a heap.

<a name="78:14">78:14</a> He led them with a cloud by day,
and with the light of a fire all night long.

<a name="78:15">78:15</a> He broke open rocks in the wilderness,
and gave them enough water to fill the depths of the sea.

<a name="78:16">78:16</a> He caused streams to flow from the rock,
and made the water flow like rivers.

<a name="78:17">78:17</a> Yet they continued to sin against him,
and rebelled against the Sovereign One in the desert.

<a name="78:18">78:18</a> They willfully challenged God
by asking for food to satisfy their appetite.

<a name="78:19">78:19</a> They insulted God, saying,
“Is God really able to give us food in the wilderness?

<a name="78:20">78:20</a> Yes, he struck a rock and water flowed out,
streams gushed forth.
But can he also give us food?
Will he provide meat for his people?”

<a name="78:21">78:21</a> When the Lord heard this, he was furious.
A fire broke out against Jacob,
and his anger flared up against Israel,

<a name="78:22">78:22</a> because they did not have faith in God,
and did not trust his ability to deliver them.

<a name="78:23">78:23</a> He gave a command to the clouds above,
and opened the doors in the sky.

<a name="78:24">78:24</a> He rained down manna for them to eat;
he gave them the grain of heaven.

<a name="78:25">78:25</a> Man ate the food of the mighty ones.
He sent them more than enough to eat.

<a name="78:26">78:26</a> He brought the east wind through the sky,
and by his strength led forth the south wind.

<a name="78:27">78:27</a> He rained down meat on them like dust,
birds as numerous as the sand on the seashores.

<a name="78:28">78:28</a> He caused them to fall right in the middle of their camp,
all around their homes.

<a name="78:29">78:29</a> They ate until they were stuffed;
he gave them what they desired.

<a name="78:30">78:30</a> They were not yet filled up,
their food was still in their mouths,

<a name="78:31">78:31</a> when the anger of God flared up against them.
He killed some of the strongest of them;
he brought the young men of Israel to their knees.

<a name="78:32">78:32</a> Despite all this, they continued to sin,
and did not trust him to do amazing things.

<a name="78:33">78:33</a> So he caused them to die unsatisfied
and filled with terror.

<a name="78:34">78:34</a> When he struck them down, they sought his favor;
they turned back and longed for God.

<a name="78:35">78:35</a> They remembered that God was their protector,
and that the sovereign God was their deliverer.

<a name="78:36">78:36</a> But they deceived him with their words,
and lied to him.

<a name="78:37">78:37</a> They were not really committed to him,
and they were unfaithful to his covenant.

<a name="78:38">78:38</a> Yet he is compassionate.
He forgives sin and does not destroy.
He often holds back his anger,
and does not stir up his fury.

<a name="78:39">78:39</a> He remembered that they were made of flesh,
and were like a wind that blows past and does not return.

<a name="78:40">78:40</a> How often they rebelled against him in the wilderness,
and insulted him in the desert!

<a name="78:41">78:41</a> They again challenged God,
and offended the sovereign king of Israel.

<a name="78:42">78:42</a> They did not remember what he had done,
how he delivered them from the enemy,

<a name="78:43">78:43</a> when he performed his awesome deeds in Egypt,
and his acts of judgment in the region of Zoan.

<a name="78:44">78:44</a> He turned their rivers into blood,
and they could not drink from their streams.

<a name="78:45">78:45</a> He sent swarms of biting insects against them,
as well as frogs that overran their land.

<a name="78:46">78:46</a> He gave their crops to the grasshopper,
the fruit of their labor to the locust.

<a name="78:47">78:47</a> He destroyed their vines with hail,
and their sycamore-fig trees with driving rain.

<a name="78:48">78:48</a> He rained hail down on their cattle,
and hurled lightning bolts down on their livestock.

<a name="78:49">78:49</a> His raging anger lashed out against them,
He sent fury, rage, and trouble
as messengers who bring disaster.

<a name="78:50">78:50</a> He sent his anger in full force;
he did not spare them from death;
he handed their lives over to destruction.

<a name="78:51">78:51</a> He struck down all the firstborn in Egypt,
the firstbfruits of their reproductive power in the tents of Ham.

<a name="78:52">78:52</a> Yet he brought out his people like sheep;
he led them through the wilderness like a flock.

<a name="78:53">78:53</a> He guided them safely along,
while the sea covered their enemies.

<a name="78:54">78:54</a> He brought them to the border of his holy land,
to this mountainous land which his right hand acquired.

<a name="78:55">78:55</a> He drove the nations out from before them;
he assigned them their tribal allotments
and allowed the tribes of Israel to settle down.

<a name="78:56">78:56</a> Yet they challenged and defied the Sovereign God,
and did not obey his commands.

<a name="78:57">78:57</a> They were unfaithful and acted as treacherously as their ancestors;
they were as unreliable as a malfunctioning bow.

<a name="78:58">78:58</a> They made him angry with their pagan shrines,
and made him jealous with their idols.

<a name="78:59">78:59</a> God heard and was angry;
he completely rejected Israel.

<a name="78:60">78:60</a> He abandoned the sanctuary at Shiloh,
the tent where he lived among men.

<a name="78:61">78:61</a> He allowed the symbol of his strong presence to be captured;
he gave the symbol of his splendor into the hand of the enemy.

<a name="78:62">78:62</a> He delivered his people over to the sword,
and was angry with his chosen nation.

<a name="78:63">78:63</a> Fire consumed their young men,
and their virgins remained unmarried.

<a name="78:64">78:64</a> Their priests fell by the sword,
but their widows did not weep.

<a name="78:65">78:65</a> But then the sovereign Master awoke from his sleep;
he was like a warrior in a drunken rage.

<a name="78:66">78:66</a> He drove his enemies back;
he made them a permanent target for insults.

<a name="78:67">78:67</a> He rejected the tent of Joseph;
he did not choose the tribe of Ephraim.

<a name="78:68">78:68</a> He chose the tribe of Judah,
and Mount Zion, which he loves.

<a name="78:69">78:69</a> He made his sanctuary as enduring as the heavens above;
as secure as the earth, which he established permanently.

<a name="78:70">78:70</a> He chose David, his servant,
and took him from the sheepfolds.

<a name="78:71">78:71</a> He took him away from following the mother sheep,
and made him the shepherd of Jacob, his people,
and of Israel, his chosen nation.

<a name="78:72">78:72</a> David cared for them with pure motives;
he led them with skill.