---
title: 91
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


<a name="91:1">91:1</a> As for you, the one who lives in the shelter of the Sovereign One,
and resides in the protective shadow of the mighty king — 

<a name="91:2">91:2</a> I say this about the Lord, my shelter and my stronghold,
my God in whom I trust — 

<a name="91:3">91:3</a> he will certainly rescue you from the snare of the hunter
and from the destructive plague.

<a name="91:4">91:4</a> He will shelter you with his wings;
you will find safety under his wings.
His faithfulness is like a shield or a protective wall.

<a name="91:5">91:5</a> You need not fear the terrors of the night,
the arrow that flies by day,

<a name="91:6">91:6</a> the plague that comes in the darkness,
or the disease that comes at noon.

<a name="91:7">91:7</a> Though a thousand may fall beside you,
and a multitude on your right side,
it will not reach you.

<a name="91:8">91:8</a> Certainly you will see it with your very own eyes — 
you will see the wicked paid back.

<a name="91:9">91:9</a> For you have taken refuge in the Lord,
my shelter, the Sovereign One.

<a name="91:10">91:10</a> No harm will overtake you;
no illness will come near your home.

<a name="91:11">91:11</a> For he will order his angels
to protect you in all you do.

<a name="91:12">91:12</a> They will lift you up in their hands,
so you will not slip and fall on a stone.

<a name="91:13">91:13</a> You will subdue a lion and a snake;
you will trample underfoot a young lion and a serpent.

<a name="91:14">91:14</a> The Lord says,
“Because he is devoted to me, I will deliver him;
I will protect him because he is loyal to me.

<a name="91:15">91:15</a> When he calls out to me, I will answer him.
I will be with him when he is in trouble;
I will rescue him and bring him honor.

<a name="91:16">91:16</a> I will satisfy him with long life,
and will let him see my salvation.