---
title: 102
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


The prayer of an oppressed man, as he grows faint and pours out his lament before the Lord.


<a name="102:1">102:1</a> O Lord, hear my prayer!
Pay attention to my cry for help!

<a name="102:2">102:2</a> Do not ignore me in my time of trouble!
Listen to me!
When I call out to you, quickly answer me!

<a name="102:3">102:3</a> For my days go up in smoke,
and my bones are charred like a fireplace.

<a name="102:4">102:4</a> My heart is parched and withered like grass,
for I am unable to eat food.

<a name="102:5">102:5</a> Because of the anxiety that makes me groan,
my bones protrude from my skin.

<a name="102:6">102:6</a> I am like an owl in the wilderness;
I am like a screech owl among the ruins.

<a name="102:7">102:7</a> I stay awake;
I am like a solitary bird on a roof.

<a name="102:8">102:8</a> All day long my enemies taunt me;
those who mock me use my name in their curses.

<a name="102:9">102:9</a> For I eat ashes as if they were bread,
and mix my drink with my tears,

<a name="102:10">102:10</a> because of your anger and raging fury.
Indeed, you pick me up and throw me away.

<a name="102:11">102:11</a> My days are coming to an end,
and I am withered like grass.

<a name="102:12">102:12</a> But you, O Lord, rule forever,
and your reputation endures.

<a name="102:13">102:13</a> You will rise up and have compassion on Zion.
For it is time to have mercy on her,
for the appointed time has come.

<a name="102:14">102:14</a> Indeed, your servants take delight in her stones,
and feel compassion for the dust of her ruins.

<a name="102:15">102:15</a> The nations will respect the reputation of the Lord,
and all the kings of the earth will respect his splendor,

<a name="102:16">102:16</a> when the Lord rebuilds Zion,
and reveals his splendor,

<a name="102:17">102:17</a> when he responds to the prayer of the destitute,
and does not reject their request.

<a name="102:18">102:18</a> The account of his intervention will be recorded for future generations;
people yet to be born will praise the Lord.

<a name="102:19">102:19</a> For he will look down from his sanctuary above;
from heaven the Lord will look toward earth,

<a name="102:20">102:20</a> in order to hear the painful cries of the prisoners,
and to set free those condemned to die,

<a name="102:21">102:21</a> so they may proclaim the name of the Lord in Zion,
and praise him in Jerusalem,

<a name="102:22">102:22</a> when the nations gather together,
and the kingdoms pay tribute to the Lord.

<a name="102:23">102:23</a> He has taken away my strength in the middle of life;
he has cut short my days.

<a name="102:24">102:24</a> I say, “O my God, please do not take me away in the middle of my life!
You endure through all generations.

<a name="102:25">102:25</a> In earlier times you established the earth;
the skies are your handiwork.

<a name="102:26">102:26</a> They will perish,
but you will endure.
They will wear out like a garment;
like clothes you will remove them and they will disappear.

<a name="102:27">102:27</a> But you remain;
your years do not come to an end.

<a name="102:28">102:28</a> The children of your servants will settle down here,
and their descendants will live securely in your presence.”