---
title: 104
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


<a name="104:1">104:1</a> Praise the Lord, O my soul!
O Lord my God, you are magnificent.
You are robed in splendor and majesty.

<a name="104:2">104:2</a> He covers himself with light as if it were a garment.
He stretches out the skies like a tent curtain,

<a name="104:3">104:3</a> and lays the beams of the upper rooms of his palace on the rain clouds.
He makes the clouds his chariot,
and travels along on the wings of the wind.

<a name="104:4">104:4</a> He makes the winds his messengers,
and the flaming fire his attendant.

<a name="104:5">104:5</a> He established the earth on its foundations;
it will never be upended.

<a name="104:6">104:6</a> The watery deep covered it like a garment;
the waters reached above the mountains.

<a name="104:7">104:7</a> Your shout made the waters retreat;
at the sound of your thunderous voice they hurried off — 

<a name="104:8">104:8</a> as the mountains rose up,
and the valleys went down — 
to the place you appointed for them.

<a name="104:9">104:9</a> You set up a boundary for them that they could not cross,
so that they would not cover the earth again.

<a name="104:10">104:10</a> He turns springs into streams;
they flow between the mountains.

<a name="104:11">104:11</a> They provide water for all the animals in the field;
the wild donkeys quench their thirst.

<a name="104:12">104:12</a> The birds of the sky live beside them;
they chirp among the bushes.

<a name="104:13">104:13</a> He waters the mountains from the upper rooms of his palace;
the earth is full of the fruit you cause to grow.

<a name="104:14">104:14</a> He provides grass for the cattle,
and crops for people to cultivate,
so they can produce food from the ground,

<a name="104:15">104:15</a> as well as wine that makes people feel so good,
and so they can have oil to make their faces shine,
as well as food that sustains people’s lives.

<a name="104:16">104:16</a> The trees of the Lord receive all the rain they need, the cedars of Lebanon which he planted,

<a name="104:17">104:17</a> where the birds make nests,
near the evergreens in which the herons live.

<a name="104:18">104:18</a> The wild goats live in the high mountains;
the rock badgers find safety in the cliffs.

<a name="104:19">104:19</a> He made the moon to mark the months,
and the sun sets according to a regular schedule.

<a name="104:20">104:20</a> You make it dark and night comes,
during which all the beasts of the forest prowl around.

<a name="104:21">104:21</a> The lions roar for prey,
seeking their food from God.

<a name="104:22">104:22</a> When the sun rises, they withdraw
and sleep in their dens.

<a name="104:23">104:23</a> Men then go out to do their work,
and labor away until evening.

<a name="104:24">104:24</a> How many living things you have made, O Lord!
You have exhibited great skill in making all of them;
the earth is full of the living things you have made.

<a name="104:25">104:25</a> Over here is the deep, wide sea,
which teems with innumerable swimming creatures,
living things both small and large.

<a name="104:26">104:26</a> The ships travel there,
and over here swims the whale you made to play in it.

<a name="104:27">104:27</a> All of your creatures wait for you
to provide them with food on a regular basis.

<a name="104:28">104:28</a> You give food to them and they receive it;
you open your hand and they are filled with food.

<a name="104:29">104:29</a> When you ignore them, they panic.
When you take away their life’s breath, they die
and return to dust.

<a name="104:30">104:30</a> When you send your life-giving breath, they are created,
and you replenish the surface of the ground.

<a name="104:31">104:31</a> May the splendor of the Lord endure!
May the Lord find pleasure in the living things he has made!

<a name="104:32">104:32</a> He looks down on the earth and it shakes;
he touches the mountains and they start to smolder.

<a name="104:33">104:33</a> I will sing to the Lord as long as I live;
I will sing praise to my God as long as I exist!

<a name="104:34">104:34</a> May my thoughts be pleasing to him!
I will rejoice in the Lord.

<a name="104:35">104:35</a> May sinners disappear from the earth,
and the wicked vanish!
Praise the Lord, O my soul!
Praise the Lord!