---
title: 107
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


<a name="107:1">107:1</a> Give thanks to the Lord, for he is good,
and his loyal love endures!

<a name="107:2">107:2</a> Let those delivered by the Lord speak out,
those whom he delivered from the power of the enemy,

<a name="107:3">107:3</a> and gathered from foreign lands,
from east and west,
from north and south.

<a name="107:4">107:4</a> They wandered through the wilderness on a desert road;
they found no city in which to live.

<a name="107:5">107:5</a> They were hungry and thirsty;
they fainted from exhaustion.

<a name="107:6">107:6</a> They cried out to the Lord in their distress;
he delivered them from their troubles.

<a name="107:7">107:7</a> He led them on a level road,
that they might find a city in which to live.

<a name="107:8">107:8</a> Let them give thanks to the Lord for his loyal love,
and for the amazing things he has done for people!

<a name="107:9">107:9</a> For he has satisfied those who thirst,
and those who hunger he has filled with food.

<a name="107:10">107:10</a> They sat in utter darkness,
bound in painful iron chains,

<a name="107:11">107:11</a> because they had rebelled against God’s commands,
and rejected the instructions of the sovereign king.

<a name="107:12">107:12</a> So he used suffering to humble them;
they stumbled and no one helped them up.

<a name="107:13">107:13</a> They cried out to the Lord in their distress;
he delivered them from their troubles.

<a name="107:14">107:14</a> He brought them out of the utter darkness,
and tore off their shackles.

<a name="107:15">107:15</a> Let them give thanks to the Lord for his loyal love,
and for the amazing things he has done for people!

<a name="107:16">107:16</a> For he shattered the bronze gates,
and hacked through the iron bars.

<a name="107:17">107:17</a> They acted like fools in their rebellious ways,
and suffered because of their sins.

<a name="107:18">107:18</a> They lost their appetite for all food,
and they drew near the gates of death.

<a name="107:19">107:19</a> They cried out to the Lord in their distress;
he delivered them from their troubles.

<a name="107:20">107:20</a> He sent them an assuring word and healed them;
he rescued them from the pits where they were trapped.

<a name="107:21">107:21</a> Let them give thanks to the Lord for his loyal love,
and for the amazing things he has done for people!

<a name="107:22">107:22</a> Let them present thank offerings,
and loudly proclaim what he has done!

<a name="107:23">107:23</a> Some traveled on the sea in ships,
and carried cargo over the vast waters.

<a name="107:24">107:24</a> They witnessed the acts of the Lord,
his amazing feats on the deep water.

<a name="107:25">107:25</a> He gave the order for a windstorm,
and it stirred up the waves of the sea.

<a name="107:26">107:26</a> They reached up to the sky,
then dropped into the depths.
The sailors’ strength left them because the danger was so great.

<a name="107:27">107:27</a> They swayed and staggered like a drunk,
and all their skill proved ineffective.

<a name="107:28">107:28</a> They cried out to the Lord in their distress;
he delivered them from their troubles.

<a name="107:29">107:29</a> He calmed the storm,
and the waves grew silent.

<a name="107:30">107:30</a> The sailors rejoiced because the waves grew quiet,
and he led them to the harbor they desired.

<a name="107:31">107:31</a> Let them give thanks to the Lord for his loyal love,
and for the amazing things he has done for people!

<a name="107:32">107:32</a> Let them exalt him in the assembly of the people!
Let them praise him in the place where the leaders preside!

<a name="107:33">107:33</a> He turned streams into a desert,
springs of water into arid land,

<a name="107:34">107:34</a> and a fruitful land into a barren place,
because of the sin of its inhabitants.

<a name="107:35">107:35</a> As for his people, he turned a desert into a pool of water,
and a dry land into springs of water.

<a name="107:36">107:36</a> He allowed the hungry to settle there,
and they established a city in which to live.

<a name="107:37">107:37</a> They cultivated fields,
and planted vineyards,
which yielded a harvest of fruit.

<a name="107:38">107:38</a> He blessed them so that they became very numerous.
He would not allow their cattle to decrease in number.

<a name="107:39">107:39</a> As for their enemies, they decreased in number and were beaten down,
because of painful distress and suffering.

<a name="107:40">107:40</a> He would pour contempt upon princes,
and he made them wander in a wasteland with no road.

<a name="107:41">107:41</a> Yet he protected the needy from oppression,
and cared for his families like a flock of sheep.

<a name="107:42">107:42</a> When the godly see this, they rejoice,
and every sinner shuts his mouth.

<a name="107:43">107:43</a> Whoever is wise, let him take note of these things!
Let them consider the Lord’s acts of loyal love!