---
title: 118
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


<a name="118:1">118:1</a> Give thanks to the Lord, for he is good
and his loyal love endures!

<a name="118:2">118:2</a> Let Israel say,
“Yes, his loyal love endures!”

<a name="118:3">118:3</a> Let the family of Aaron say,
“Yes, his loyal love endures!”

<a name="118:4">118:4</a> Let the loyal followers of the Lord say,
“Yes, his loyal love endures!”

<a name="118:5">118:5</a> In my distress I cried out to the Lord.
The Lord answered me and put me in a wide open place.

<a name="118:6">118:6</a> The Lord is on my side, I am not afraid!
What can people do to me?

<a name="118:7">118:7</a> The Lord is on my side as my helper.
I look in triumph on those who hate me.

<a name="118:8">118:8</a> It is better to take shelter in the Lord
than to trust in people.

<a name="118:9">118:9</a> It is better to take shelter in the Lord
than to trust in princes.

<a name="118:10">118:10</a> All the nations surrounded me.
Indeed, in the name of the Lord I pushed them away.

<a name="118:11">118:11</a> They surrounded me, yes, they surrounded me.
Indeed, in the name of the Lord I pushed them away.

<a name="118:12">118:12</a> They surrounded me like bees.
But they disappeared as quickly as a fire among thorns.
Indeed, in the name of the Lord I pushed them away.

<a name="118:13">118:13</a> “You aggressively attacked me and tried to knock me down,
but the Lord helped me.

<a name="118:14">118:14</a> The Lord gives me strength and protects me;
he has become my deliverer.”

<a name="118:15">118:15</a> They celebrate deliverance in the tents of the godly.
The Lord’s right hand conquers,

<a name="118:16">118:16</a> the Lord’s right hand gives victory,
the Lord’s right hand conquers.

<a name="118:17">118:17</a> I will not die, but live,
and I will proclaim what the Lord has done.

<a name="118:18">118:18</a> The Lord severely punished me,
but he did not hand me over to death.

<a name="118:19">118:19</a> Open for me the gates of the just king’s temple!
I will enter through them and give thanks to the Lord.

<a name="118:20">118:20</a> This is the Lord’s gate — 
the godly enter through it.

<a name="118:21">118:21</a> I will give you thanks, for you answered me,
and have become my deliverer.

<a name="118:22">118:22</a> The stone which the builders discarded
has become the cornerstone.

<a name="118:23">118:23</a> This is the Lord’s work.
We consider it amazing!

<a name="118:24">118:24</a> This is the day the Lord has brought about.
We will be happy and rejoice in it.

<a name="118:25">118:25</a> Please Lord, deliver!
Please Lord, grant us success!

<a name="118:26">118:26</a> May the one who comes in the name of the Lord be blessed!
We will pronounce blessings on you in the Lord’s temple.

<a name="118:27">118:27</a> The Lord is God and he has delivered us.
Tie the offering with ropes
to the horns of the altar!

<a name="118:28">118:28</a> You are my God and I will give you thanks!
You are my God and I will praise you!

<a name="118:29">118:29</a> Give thanks to the Lord, for he is good
and his loyal love endures!