---
title: 139
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


For the music director, a psalm of David.


<a name="139:1">139:1</a> O Lord, you examine me and know.

<a name="139:2">139:2</a> You know when I sit down and when I get up;
even from far away you understand my motives.

<a name="139:3">139:3</a> You carefully observe me when I travel or when I lie down to rest;
you are aware of everything I do.

<a name="139:4">139:4</a> Certainly my tongue does not frame a word
without you, O Lord, being thoroughly aware of it.

<a name="139:5">139:5</a> You squeeze me in from behind and in front;
you place your hand on me.

<a name="139:6">139:6</a> Your knowledge is beyond my comprehension;
it is so far beyond me, I am unable to fathom it.

<a name="139:7">139:7</a> Where can I go to escape your spirit?
Where can I flee to escape your presence?

<a name="139:8">139:8</a> If I were to ascend to heaven, you would be there.
If I were to sprawl out in Sheol, there you would be.

<a name="139:9">139:9</a> If I were to fly away on the wings of the dawn,
and settle down on the other side of the sea,

<a name="139:10">139:10</a> even there your hand would guide me,
your right hand would grab hold of me.

<a name="139:11">139:11</a> If I were to say, “Certainly the darkness will cover me,
and the light will turn to night all around me,”

<a name="139:12">139:12</a> even the darkness is not too dark for you to see,
and the night is as bright as day;
darkness and light are the same to you.

<a name="139:13">139:13</a> Certainly you made my mind and heart;
you wove me together in my mother’s womb.

<a name="139:14">139:14</a> I will give you thanks because your deeds are awesome and amazing.
You knew me thoroughly;

<a name="139:15">139:15</a> my bones were not hidden from you,
when I was made in secret
and sewed together in the depths of the earth.

<a name="139:16">139:16</a> Your eyes saw me when I was inside the womb.
All the days ordained for me
were recorded in your scroll
before one of them came into existence.

<a name="139:17">139:17</a> How difficult it is for me to fathom your thoughts about me, O God!
How vast are their sum total!

<a name="139:18">139:18</a> If I tried to count them,
they would outnumber the grains of sand.
Even if I finished counting them,
I would still have to contend with you.

<a name="139:19">139:19</a> If only you would kill the wicked, O God!
Get away from me, you violent men!

<a name="139:20">139:20</a> They rebel against you and act deceitfully;
your enemies lie.

<a name="139:21">139:21</a> O Lord, do I not hate those who hate you,
and despise those who oppose you?

<a name="139:22">139:22</a> I absolutely hate them,
they have become my enemies!

<a name="139:23">139:23</a> Examine me, and probe my thoughts!
Test me, and know my concerns!

<a name="139:24">139:24</a> See if there is any idolatrous tendency in me,
and lead me in the reliable ancient path!