---
title: 144
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


By David.


<a name="144:1">144:1</a> The Lord, my protector, deserves praise — 
the one who trains my hands for battle,
and my fingers for war,

<a name="144:2">144:2</a> who loves me and is my stronghold,
my refuge and my deliverer,
my shield and the one in whom I take shelter,
who makes nations submit to me.

<a name="144:3">144:3</a> O Lord, “Of what importance is the human race, that you should notice them?
Of what importance is mankind, that you should be concerned about them?

<a name="144:4">144:4</a> People are like a vapor,
their days like a shadow that disappears.

<a name="144:5">144:5</a> O Lord, make the sky sink and come down!
Touch the mountains and make them smolder!

<a name="144:6">144:6</a> Hurl lightning bolts and scatter them!
Shoot your arrows and rout them!

<a name="144:7">144:7</a> Reach down from above!
Grab me and rescue me from the surging water,
from the power of foreigners,

<a name="144:8">144:8</a> who speak lies,
and make false promises.

<a name="144:9">144:9</a> O God, I will sing a new song to you!
Accompanied by a ten-stringed instrument, I will sing praises to you,

<a name="144:10">144:10</a> the one who delivers kings,
and rescued David his servant from a deadly sword.

<a name="144:11">144:11</a> Grab me and rescue me from the power of foreigners,
who speak lies,
and make false promises.

<a name="144:12">144:12</a> Then our sons will be like plants,
that quickly grow to full size.
Our daughters will be like corner pillars,
carved like those in a palace.

<a name="144:13">144:13</a> Our storehouses will be full,
providing all kinds of food.
Our sheep will multiply by the thousands
and fill our pastures.

<a name="144:14">144:14</a> Our cattle will be weighted down with produce.
No one will break through our walls,
no one will be taken captive,
and there will be no terrified cries in our city squares.

<a name="144:15">144:15</a> How happy are the people who experience these things!
How happy are the people whose God is the Lord!