---
title: 145
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


A psalm of praise, by David.


<a name="145:1">145:1</a> I will extol you, my God, O king!
I will praise your name continually!

<a name="145:2">145:2</a> Every day I will praise you!
I will praise your name continually!

<a name="145:3">145:3</a> The Lord is great and certainly worthy of praise!
No one can fathom his greatness!

<a name="145:4">145:4</a> One generation will praise your deeds to another,
and tell about your mighty acts!

<a name="145:5">145:5</a> I will focus on your honor and majestic splendor,
and your amazing deeds!

<a name="145:6">145:6</a> They will proclaim the power of your awesome acts!
I will declare your great deeds!

<a name="145:7">145:7</a> They will talk about the fame of your great kindness,
and sing about your justice.

<a name="145:8">145:8</a> The Lord is merciful and compassionate;
he is patient and demonstrates great loyal love.

<a name="145:9">145:9</a> The Lord is good to all,
and has compassion on all he has made.

<a name="145:10">145:10</a> All he has made will give thanks to the Lord.
Your loyal followers will praise you.

<a name="145:11">145:11</a> They will proclaim the splendor of your kingdom;
they will tell about your power,

<a name="145:12">145:12</a> so that mankind might acknowledge your mighty acts,
and the majestic splendor of your kingdom.

<a name="145:13">145:13</a> Your kingdom is an eternal kingdom,
and your dominion endures through all generations.

<a name="145:14">145:14</a> The Lord supports all who fall,
and lifts up all who are bent over.

<a name="145:15">145:15</a> Everything looks to you in anticipation,
and you provide them with food on a regular basis.

<a name="145:16">145:16</a> You open your hand,
and fill every living thing with the food they desire.

<a name="145:17">145:17</a> The Lord is just in all his actions,
and exhibits love in all he does.

<a name="145:18">145:18</a> The Lord is near all who cry out to him,
all who cry out to him sincerely.

<a name="145:19">145:19</a> He satisfies the desire of his loyal followers;
he hears their cry for help and delivers them.

<a name="145:20">145:20</a> The Lord protects those who love him,
but he destroys all the wicked.

<a name="145:21">145:21</a> My mouth will praise the Lord.
Let all who live praise his holy name forever!