---
title: 17
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


A prayer of David.

<a name="17:1">17:1</a> Lord, consider my just cause!
Pay attention to my cry for help!
Listen to the prayer
I sincerely offer!

<a name="17:2">17:2</a> Make a just decision on my behalf!
Decide what is right!

<a name="17:3">17:3</a> You have scrutinized my inner motives;
you have examined me during the night.
You have carefully evaluated me, but you find no sin.
I am determined I will say nothing sinful.

<a name="17:4">17:4</a> As for the actions of people — 
just as you have commanded,
I have not followed in the footsteps of violent men.

<a name="17:5">17:5</a> I carefully obey your commands;
I do not deviate from them.

<a name="17:6">17:6</a> I call to you for you will answer me, O God.
Listen to me!
Hear what I say!

<a name="17:7">17:7</a> Accomplish awesome, faithful deeds,
you who powerfully deliver those who look to you for protection from their enemies.

<a name="17:8">17:8</a> Protect me as you would protect the pupil of your eye!
Hide me in the shadow of your wings!

<a name="17:9">17:9</a> Protect me from the wicked men who attack me,
my enemies who crowd around me for the kill.

<a name="17:10">17:10</a> They are calloused;
they speak arrogantly.

<a name="17:11">17:11</a> They attack me, now they surround me;
they intend to throw me to the ground.

<a name="17:12">17:12</a> He is like a lion that wants to tear its prey to bits,
like a young lion crouching in hidden places.

<a name="17:13">17:13</a> Rise up, Lord!
Confront him! Knock him down!
Use your sword to rescue me from the wicked man!

<a name="17:14">17:14</a> Lord, use your power to deliver me from these murderers,
from the murderers of this world!
They enjoy prosperity;
you overwhelm them with the riches they desire.
They have many children,
and leave their wealth to their offspring.

<a name="17:15">17:15</a> As for me, because I am innocent I will see your face;
when I awake you will reveal yourself to me.