---
title: 18
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


For the music director; by the Lord’s servant David, who sang to the Lord the words of this song when the Lord rescued him from the power of all his enemies, including Saul.

<a name="18:1">18:1</a> He said:

“I love you, Lord, my source of strength!

<a name="18:2">18:2</a> The Lord is my high ridge, my stronghold, my deliverer.
My God is my rocky summit where I take shelter,
my shield, the horn that saves me, and my refuge.

<a name="18:3">18:3</a> I called to the Lord, who is worthy of praise,
and I was delivered from my enemies.

<a name="18:4">18:4</a> The waves of death engulfed me,
the currents of chaos overwhelmed me.

<a name="18:5">18:5</a> The ropes of Sheol tightened around me,
the snares of death trapped me.

<a name="18:6">18:6</a> In my distress I called to the Lord;
I cried out to my God.
From his heavenly temple he heard my voice;
he listened to my cry for help.

<a name="18:7">18:7</a> The earth heaved and shook;
the roots of the mountains trembled;
they heaved because he was angry.

<a name="18:8">18:8</a> Smoke ascended from his nose;
fire devoured as it came from his mouth;
he hurled down fiery coals.

<a name="18:9">18:9</a> He made the sky sink as he descended;
a thick cloud was under his feet.

<a name="18:10">18:10</a> He mounted a winged angel and flew;
he glided on the wings of the wind.

<a name="18:11">18:11</a> He shrouded himself in darkness,
in thick rain clouds.

<a name="18:12">18:12</a> From the brightness in front of him came
hail and fiery coals.

<a name="18:13">18:13</a> The Lord thundered in the sky;
the Sovereign One shouted.

<a name="18:14">18:14</a> He shot his arrows and scattered them,
many lightning bolts and routed them.

<a name="18:15">18:15</a> The depths of the sea were exposed;
the inner regions of the world were uncovered
by your battle cry, Lord,
by the powerful breath from your nose.

<a name="18:16">18:16</a> He reached down from above and grabbed me;
he pulled me from the surging water.

<a name="18:17">18:17</a> He rescued me from my strong enemy,
from those who hate me,
for they were too strong for me.

<a name="18:18">18:18</a> They confronted me in my day of calamity,
but the Lord helped me.

<a name="18:19">18:19</a> He brought me out into a wide open place;
he delivered me because he was pleased with me.

<a name="18:20">18:20</a> The Lord repaid me for my godly deeds;
he rewarded my blameless behavior.

<a name="18:21">18:21</a> For I have obeyed the Lord’s commands;
I have not rebelled against my God.

<a name="18:22">18:22</a> For I am aware of all his regulations,
and I do not reject his rules.

<a name="18:23">18:23</a> I was innocent before him,
and kept myself from sinning.

<a name="18:24">18:24</a> The Lord rewarded me for my godly deeds;
he took notice of my blameless behavior.

<a name="18:25">18:25</a> You prove to be loyal to one who is faithful;
you prove to be trustworthy to one who is innocent.

<a name="18:26">18:26</a> You prove to be reliable to one who is blameless,
but you prove to be deceptive to one who is perverse.

<a name="18:27">18:27</a> For you deliver oppressed people,
but you bring down those who have a proud look.

<a name="18:28">18:28</a> Indeed, you are my lamp, Lord.
My God illuminates the darkness around me.

<a name="18:29">18:29</a> Indeed, with your help I can charge against an army;
by my God’s power I can jump over a wall.

<a name="18:30">18:30</a> The one true God acts in a faithful manner;
the Lord’s promise is reliable;
he is a shield to all who take shelter in him.

<a name="18:31">18:31</a> Indeed, who is God besides the Lord?
Who is a protector besides our God?

<a name="18:32">18:32</a> The one true God gives me strength;
he removes the obstacles in my way.

<a name="18:33">18:33</a> He gives me the agility of a deer;
he enables me to negotiate the rugged terrain.

<a name="18:34">18:34</a> He trains my hands for battle;
my arms can bend even the strongest bow.

<a name="18:35">18:35</a> You give me your protective shield;
your right hand supports me;
your willingness to help enables me to prevail.

<a name="18:36">18:36</a> You widen my path;
my feet do not slip.

<a name="18:37">18:37</a> I chase my enemies and catch them;
I do not turn back until I wipe them out.

<a name="18:38">18:38</a> I beat them to death;
they fall at my feet.

<a name="18:39">18:39</a> You give me strength for battle;
you make my foes kneel before me.

<a name="18:40">18:40</a> You make my enemies retreat;
I destroy those who hate me.

<a name="18:41">18:41</a> They cry out, but there is no one to help them;
they cry out to the Lord, but he does not answer them.

<a name="18:42">18:42</a> I grind them as fine windblown dust;
I beat them underfoot like clay in the streets.

<a name="18:43">18:43</a> You rescue me from a hostile army;
you make me a leader of nations;
people over whom I had no authority are now my subjects.

<a name="18:44">18:44</a> When they hear of my exploits, they submit to me.
Foreigners are powerless before me;

<a name="18:45">18:45</a> foreigners lose their courage;
they shake with fear as they leave their strongholds.

<a name="18:46">18:46</a> The Lord is alive!
My protector is praiseworthy!
The God who delivers me is exalted as king!

<a name="18:47">18:47</a> The one true God completely vindicates me;
he makes nations submit to me.

<a name="18:48">18:48</a> He delivers me from my enemies;
you snatch me away from those who attack me;
you rescue me from violent men.

<a name="18:49">18:49</a> So I will give you thanks before the nations, O Lord!
I will sing praises to you!

<a name="18:50">18:50</a> He gives his chosen king magnificent victories;
he is faithful to his chosen ruler,
to David and his descendants forever.”