---
title: 25
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


By David.

<a name="25:1">25:1</a> O Lord, I come before you in prayer.

<a name="25:2">25:2</a> My God, I trust in you.
Please do not let me be humiliated;
do not let my enemies triumphantly rejoice over me!

<a name="25:3">25:3</a> Certainly none who rely on you will be humiliated.
Those who deal in treachery will be thwarted and humiliated.

<a name="25:4">25:4</a> Make me understand your ways, O Lord!
Teach me your paths!

<a name="25:5">25:5</a> Guide me into your truth and teach me.
For you are the God who delivers me;
on you I rely all day long.

<a name="25:6">25:6</a> Remember your compassionate and faithful deeds, O Lord,
for you have always acted in this manner.

<a name="25:7">25:7</a> Do not hold against me the sins of my youth or my rebellious acts!
Because you are faithful to me, extend to me your favor, O Lord!

<a name="25:8">25:8</a> The Lord is both kind and fair;
that is why he teaches sinners the right way to live.

<a name="25:9">25:9</a> May he show the humble what is right!
May he teach the humble his way!

<a name="25:10">25:10</a> The Lord always proves faithful and reliable
to those who follow the demands of his covenant.

<a name="25:11">25:11</a> For the sake of your reputation, O Lord,
forgive my sin, because it is great.

<a name="25:12">25:12</a> The Lord shows his faithful followers
the way they should live.

<a name="25:13">25:13</a> They experience his favor;
their descendants inherit the land.

<a name="25:14">25:14</a> The Lord’s loyal followers receive his guidance,
and he reveals his covenantal demands to them.

<a name="25:15">25:15</a> I continually look to the Lord for help,
for he will free my feet from the enemy’s net.

<a name="25:16">25:16</a> Turn toward me and have mercy on me,
for I am alone and oppressed!

<a name="25:17">25:17</a> Deliver me from my distress;
rescue me from my suffering!

<a name="25:18">25:18</a> See my pain and suffering!
Forgive all my sins!

<a name="25:19">25:19</a> Watch my enemies, for they outnumber me;
they hate me and want to harm me.

<a name="25:20">25:20</a> Protect me and deliver me!
Please do not let me be humiliated,
for I have taken shelter in you!

<a name="25:21">25:21</a> May integrity and godliness protect me,
for I rely on you!

<a name="25:22">25:22</a> O God, rescue Israel
from all their distress!