---
title: 35
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


By David.

<a name="35:1">35:1</a> O Lord, fight those who fight with me!
Attack those who attack me!

<a name="35:2">35:2</a> Grab your small shield and large shield,
and rise up to help me!

<a name="35:3">35:3</a> Use your spear and lance against those who chase me!
Assure me with these words: “I am your deliverer!”

<a name="35:4">35:4</a> May those who seek my life be embarrassed and humiliated!
May those who plan to harm me be turned back and ashamed!

<a name="35:5">35:5</a> May they be like wind-driven chaff,
as the Lord’s angel attacks them!

<a name="35:6">35:6</a> May their path be dark and slippery,
as the Lord’s angel chases them!

<a name="35:7">35:7</a> I did not harm them, but they hid a net to catch me
and dug a pit to trap me.

<a name="35:8">35:8</a> Let destruction take them by surprise!
Let the net they hid catch them!
Let them fall into destruction!

<a name="35:9">35:9</a> Then I will rejoice in the Lord
and be happy because of his deliverance.

<a name="35:10">35:10</a> With all my strength I will say,
“O Lord, who can compare to you?
You rescue the oppressed from those who try to overpower them;
the oppressed and needy from those who try to rob them.”

<a name="35:11">35:11</a> Violent men perjure themselves,
and falsely accuse me.

<a name="35:12">35:12</a> They repay me evil for the good I have done;
I am overwhelmed with sorrow.

<a name="35:13">35:13</a> When they were sick, I wore sackcloth,
and refrained from eating food. (If I am lying, may my prayers go unanswered!)

<a name="35:14">35:14</a> I mourned for them as I would for a friend or my brother.
I bowed down in sorrow as if I were mourning for my mother.

<a name="35:15">35:15</a> But when I stumbled, they rejoiced and gathered together;
they gathered together to ambush me.
They tore at me without stopping to rest.

<a name="35:16">35:16</a> When I tripped, they taunted me relentlessly,
and tried to bite me.

<a name="35:17">35:17</a> O sovereign Master, how long are you going to just stand there and watch this?
Rescue me from their destructive attacks;
guard my life from the young lions!

<a name="35:18">35:18</a> Then I will give you thanks in the great assembly;
I will praise you before a large crowd of people!

<a name="35:19">35:19</a> Do not let those who are my enemies for no reason gloat over me!
Do not let those who hate me without cause carry out their wicked schemes!

<a name="35:20">35:20</a> For they do not try to make peace with others,
but plan ways to deceive those who are unsuspecting.

<a name="35:21">35:21</a> They are ready to devour me;
they say, “Aha! Aha! We’ve got you!”

<a name="35:22">35:22</a> But you take notice, Lord!
O sovereign Master, do not remain far away from me!

<a name="35:23">35:23</a> Rouse yourself, wake up and vindicate me!
My God and Lord, defend my just cause!

<a name="35:24">35:24</a> Vindicate me by your justice, O Lord my God!
Do not let them gloat over me!

<a name="35:25">35:25</a> Do not let them say to themselves, “Aha! We have what we wanted!”
Do not let them say, “We have devoured him!”

<a name="35:26">35:26</a> May those who want to harm me be totally embarrassed and ashamed!
May those who arrogantly taunt me be covered with shame and humiliation!

<a name="35:27">35:27</a> May those who desire my vindication shout for joy and rejoice!
May they continually say, “May the Lord be praised, for he wants his servant to be secure.”

<a name="35:28">35:28</a> Then I will tell others about your justice,
and praise you all day long.