---
title: 37
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


By David.

<a name="37:1">37:1</a> Do not fret when wicked men seem to succeed!
Do not envy evildoers!

<a name="37:2">37:2</a> For they will quickly dry up like grass,
and wither away like plants.

<a name="37:3">37:3</a> Trust in the Lord and do what is right!
Settle in the land and maintain your integrity!

<a name="37:4">37:4</a> Then you will take delight in the Lord,
and he will answer your prayers.

<a name="37:5">37:5</a> Commit your future to the Lord!
Trust in him, and he will act on your behalf.

<a name="37:6">37:6</a> He will vindicate you in broad daylight,
and publicly defend your just cause.

<a name="37:7">37:7</a> Wait patiently for the Lord!
Wait confidently for him!
Do not fret over the apparent success of a sinner,
a man who carries out wicked schemes!

<a name="37:8">37:8</a> Do not be angry and frustrated!
Do not fret! That only leads to trouble!

<a name="37:9">37:9</a> Wicked men will be wiped out,
but those who rely on the Lord are the ones who will possess the land.

<a name="37:10">37:10</a> Evil men will soon disappear;
you will stare at the spot where they once were, but they will be gone.

<a name="37:11">37:11</a> But the oppressed will possess the land
and enjoy great prosperity.

<a name="37:12">37:12</a> Evil men plot against the godly
and viciously attack them.

<a name="37:13">37:13</a> The sovereign Master laughs in disgust at them,
for he knows that their day is coming.

<a name="37:14">37:14</a> Evil men draw their swords
and prepare their bows,
to bring down the oppressed and needy,
and to slaughter those who are godly.

<a name="37:15">37:15</a> Their swords will pierce their own hearts,
and their bows will be broken.

<a name="37:16">37:16</a> The little bit that a godly man owns is better than
the wealth of many evil men,

<a name="37:17">37:17</a> for evil men will lose their power,
but the Lord sustains the godly.

<a name="37:18">37:18</a> The Lord watches over the innocent day by day
and they possess a permanent inheritance.

<a name="37:19">37:19</a> They will not be ashamed when hard times come;
when famine comes they will have enough to eat.

<a name="37:20">37:20</a> But evil men will die;
the Lord’s enemies will be incinerated — 
they will go up in smoke.

<a name="37:21">37:21</a> Evil men borrow, but do not repay their debt,
but the godly show compassion and are generous.

<a name="37:22">37:22</a> Surely those favored by the Lord will possess the land,
but those rejected by him will be wiped out.

<a name="37:23">37:23</a> The Lord grants success to the one
whose behavior he finds commendable.

<a name="37:24">37:24</a> Even if he trips, he will not fall headlong,
for the Lord holds his hand.

<a name="37:25">37:25</a> I was once young, now I am old.
I have never seen a godly man abandoned,
or his children forced to search for food.

<a name="37:26">37:26</a> All day long he shows compassion and lends to others,
and his children are blessed.

<a name="37:27">37:27</a> Turn away from evil! Do what is right!
Then you will enjoy lasting security.

<a name="37:28">37:28</a> For the Lord promotes justice,
and never abandons his faithful followers.
They are permanently secure,
but the children of evil men are wiped out.

<a name="37:29">37:29</a> The godly will possess the land
and will dwell in it permanently.

<a name="37:30">37:30</a> The godly speak wise words
and promote justice.

<a name="37:31">37:31</a> The law of their God controls their thinking;
their feet do not slip.

<a name="37:32">37:32</a> Evil men set an ambush for the godly
and try to kill them.

<a name="37:33">37:33</a> But the Lord does not surrender the godly,
or allow them to be condemned in a court of law.

<a name="37:34">37:34</a> Rely on the Lord! Obey his commands!
Then he will permit you to possess the land;
you will see the demise of evil men.

<a name="37:35">37:35</a> I have seen ruthless evil men
growing in influence, like a green tree grows in its native soil.

<a name="37:36">37:36</a> But then one passes by, and suddenly they have disappeared!
I looked for them, but they could not be found.

<a name="37:37">37:37</a> Take note of the one who has integrity! Observe the godly!
For the one who promotes peace has a future.

<a name="37:38">37:38</a> Sinful rebels are totally destroyed;
evil men have no future.

<a name="37:39">37:39</a> But the Lord delivers the godly;
he protects them in times of trouble.

<a name="37:40">37:40</a> The Lord helps them and rescues them;
he rescues them from evil men and delivers them,
for they seek his protection.