---
title: 38
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


A psalm of David, written to get God’s attention.

<a name="38:1">38:1</a> O Lord, do not continue to rebuke me in your anger!
Do not continue to punish me in your raging fury!

<a name="38:2">38:2</a> For your arrows pierce me,
and your hand presses me down.

<a name="38:3">38:3</a> My whole body is sick because of your judgment;
I am deprived of health because of my sin.

<a name="38:4">38:4</a> For my sins overwhelm me;
like a heavy load, they are too much for me to bear.

<a name="38:5">38:5</a> My wounds are infected and starting to smell,
because of my foolish sins.

<a name="38:6">38:6</a> I am dazed and completely humiliated;
all day long I walk around mourning.

<a name="38:7">38:7</a> For I am overcome with shame
and my whole body is sick.

<a name="38:8">38:8</a> I am numb with pain and severely battered;
I groan loudly because of the anxiety I feel.

<a name="38:9">38:9</a> O sovereign Master, you understand my heart’s desire;
my groaning is not hidden from you.

<a name="38:10">38:10</a> My heart beats quickly;
my strength leaves me;
I can hardly see.

<a name="38:11">38:11</a> Because of my condition, even my friends and acquaintances keep their distance;
my neighbors stand far away.

<a name="38:12">38:12</a> Those who seek my life try to entrap me;
those who want to harm me speak destructive words;
all day long they say deceitful things.

<a name="38:13">38:13</a> But I am like a deaf man — I hear nothing;
I am like a mute who cannot speak.

<a name="38:14">38:14</a> I am like a man who cannot hear
and is incapable of arguing his defense.

<a name="38:15">38:15</a> Yet I wait for you, O Lord!
You will respond, O sovereign Master, my God!

<a name="38:16">38:16</a> I have prayed for deliverance, because otherwise they will gloat over me;
when my foot slips they will arrogantly taunt me.

<a name="38:17">38:17</a> For I am about to stumble,
and I am in constant pain.

<a name="38:18">38:18</a> Yes, I confess my wrongdoing,
and I am concerned about my sins.

<a name="38:19">38:19</a> But those who are my enemies for no reason are numerous;
those who hate me without cause outnumber me.

<a name="38:20">38:20</a> They repay me evil for the good I have done;
though I have tried to do good to them, they hurl accusations at me.

<a name="38:21">38:21</a> Do not abandon me, O Lord!
My God, do not remain far away from me!

<a name="38:22">38:22</a> Hurry and help me, O sovereign Master, my deliverer!