---
title: 39
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


For the music director, Jeduthun; a psalm of David.

<a name="39:1">39:1</a> I decided, “I will watch what I say
and make sure I do not sin with my tongue.
I will put a muzzle over my mouth
while in the presence of an evil man.”

<a name="39:2">39:2</a> I was stone silent;
I held back the urge to speak.
My frustration grew;

<a name="39:3">39:3</a> my anxiety intensified.
As I thought about it, I became impatient.
Finally I spoke these words:

<a name="39:4">39:4</a> “O Lord, help me understand my mortality
and the brevity of life!
Let me realize how quickly my life will pass!

<a name="39:5">39:5</a> Look, you make my days short-lived,
and my life span is nothing from your perspective.
Surely all people, even those who seem secure, are nothing but vapor.

<a name="39:6">39:6</a> Surely people go through life as mere ghosts.
Surely they accumulate worthless wealth
without knowing who will eventually haul it away.”

<a name="39:7">39:7</a> But now, O sovereign Master, upon what am I relying?
You are my only hope!

<a name="39:8">39:8</a> Deliver me from all my sins of rebellion!
Do not make me the object of fools’ insults!

<a name="39:9">39:9</a> I am silent and cannot open my mouth
because of what you have done.

<a name="39:10">39:10</a> Please stop wounding me!
You have almost beaten me to death!

<a name="39:11">39:11</a> You severely discipline people for their sins;
like a moth you slowly devour their strength.
Surely all people are a mere vapor. (Selah)

<a name="39:12">39:12</a> Hear my prayer, O Lord!
Listen to my cry for help!
Do not ignore my sobbing!
For I am dependent on you, like one residing outside his native land;
I am at your mercy, just as all my ancestors were.

<a name="39:13">39:13</a> Turn your angry gaze away from me, so I can be happy
before I pass away.