---
title: 45
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


For the music director; according to the tune of “Lilies;” by the Korahites, a well-written poem, a love song.


<a name="45:1">45:1</a> My heart is stirred by a beautiful song.
I say, “I have composed this special song for the king;
my tongue is as skilled as the stylus of an experienced scribe.”

<a name="45:2">45:2</a> You are the most handsome of all men!
You speak in an impressive and fitting manner!
For this reason God grants you continual blessings.

<a name="45:3">45:3</a> Strap your sword to your thigh, O warrior!
Appear in your majestic splendor!

<a name="45:4">45:4</a> Appear in your majesty and be victorious!
Ride forth for the sake of what is right,
on behalf of justice!
Then your right hand will accomplish mighty acts!

<a name="45:5">45:5</a> Your arrows are sharp
and penetrate the hearts of the king’s enemies.
Nations fall at your feet.

<a name="45:6">45:6</a> Your throne, O God, is permanent.
The scepter of your kingdom is a scepter of justice.

<a name="45:7">45:7</a> You love justice and hate evil.
For this reason God, your God has anointed you
with the oil of joy, elevating you above your companions.

<a name="45:8">45:8</a> All your garments are perfumed with myrrh, aloes, and cassia.
From the luxurious palaces comes the music of stringed instruments that makes you happy.

<a name="45:9">45:9</a> Princesses are among your honored guests,
your bride stands at your right hand, wearing jewelry made with gold from Ophir.

<a name="45:10">45:10</a> Listen, O princess!
Observe and pay attention!
Forget your homeland and your family!

<a name="45:11">45:11</a> Then the king will be attracted by your beauty.
After all, he is your master! Submit to him!

<a name="45:12">45:12</a> Rich people from Tyre
will seek your favor by bringing a gift.

<a name="45:13">45:13</a> The princess looks absolutely magnificent,
decked out in pearls and clothed in a brocade trimmed with gold.

<a name="45:14">45:14</a> In embroidered robes she is escorted to the king.
Her attendants, the maidens of honor who follow her,
are led before you.

<a name="45:15">45:15</a> They are bubbling with joy as they walk in procession
and enter the royal palace.

<a name="45:16">45:16</a> Your sons will carry on the dynasty of your ancestors;
you will make them princes throughout the land.

<a name="45:17">45:17</a> I will proclaim your greatness through the coming years,
then the nations will praise you forever.