---
title: 5
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


For the music director, to be accompanied by wind instruments; a psalm of David.

<a name="5:1">5:1</a> Listen to what I say, Lord!
Carefully consider my complaint!

<a name="5:2">5:2</a> Pay attention to my cry for help,
my king and my God,
for I am praying to you!

<a name="5:3">5:3</a> Lord, in the morning you will hear me;
in the morning I will present my case to you and then wait expectantly for an answer.

<a name="5:4">5:4</a> Certainly you are not a God who approves of evil;
evil people cannot dwell with you.

<a name="5:5">5:5</a> Arrogant people cannot stand in your presence;
you hate all who behave wickedly.

<a name="5:6">5:6</a> You destroy liars;
the Lord despises violent and deceitful people.

<a name="5:7">5:7</a> But as for me, because of your great faithfulness I will enter your house;
I will bow down toward your holy temple as I worship you.

<a name="5:8">5:8</a> Lord, vindicate me as you lead me,
because of those who wait to ambush me,
remove the obstacles in the way in which you are guiding me!

<a name="5:9">5:9</a> For they do not speak the truth;
their stomachs are like the place of destruction,
their throats like an open grave,
their tongues like a slippery slope leading into it.

<a name="5:10">5:10</a> Condemn them, O God!
May their own schemes be their downfall!
Drive them away because of their many acts of insurrection,
for they have rebelled against you.

<a name="5:11">5:11</a> But may all who take shelter in you be happy!
May they continually shout for joy!
Shelter them so that those who are loyal to you may rejoice!

<a name="5:12">5:12</a> Certainly you reward the godly, Lord.
Like a shield you protect them in your good favor.