---
title: 55
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


For the music director, to be accompanied by stringed instruments; a well-written song by David.


<a name="55:1">55:1</a> Listen, O God, to my prayer!
Do not ignore my appeal for mercy!

<a name="55:2">55:2</a> Pay attention to me and answer me!
I am so upset and distressed, I am beside myself,

<a name="55:3">55:3</a> because of what the enemy says,
and because of how the wicked pressure me,
for they hurl trouble down upon me
and angrily attack me.

<a name="55:4">55:4</a> My heart beats violently within me;
the horrors of death overcome me.

<a name="55:5">55:5</a> Fear and panic overpower me;
terror overwhelms me.

<a name="55:6">55:6</a> I say, “I wish I had wings like a dove!
I would fly away and settle in a safe place!

<a name="55:7">55:7</a> Look, I will escape to a distant place;
I will stay in the wilderness. (Selah)

<a name="55:8">55:8</a> I will hurry off to a place that is safe
from the strong wind and the gale.”

<a name="55:9">55:9</a> Confuse them, O sovereign Master!
Frustrate their plans!
For I see violence and conflict in the city.

<a name="55:10">55:10</a> Day and night they walk around on its walls,
while wickedness and destruction are within it.

<a name="55:11">55:11</a> Disaster is within it;
violence and deceit do not depart from its public square.

<a name="55:12">55:12</a> Indeed, it is not an enemy who insults me,
or else I could bear it;
it is not one who hates me who arrogantly taunts me,
or else I could hide from him.

<a name="55:13">55:13</a> But it is you, a man like me,
my close friend in whom I confided.

<a name="55:14">55:14</a> We would share personal thoughts with each other;
in God’s temple we would walk together among the crowd.

<a name="55:15">55:15</a> May death destroy them!
May they go down alive into Sheol!
For evil is in their dwelling place and in their midst.

<a name="55:16">55:16</a> As for me, I will call out to God,
and the Lord will deliver me.

<a name="55:17">55:17</a> During the evening, morning, and noontime
I will lament and moan,
and he will hear me.

<a name="55:18">55:18</a> He will rescue me and protect me from those who attack me,
even though they greatly outnumber me.

<a name="55:19">55:19</a> God, the one who has reigned as king from long ago,
will hear and humiliate them. (Selah)
They refuse to change,
and do not fear God.

<a name="55:20">55:20</a> He attacks his friends;
he breaks his solemn promises to them.

<a name="55:21">55:21</a> His words are as smooth as butter,
but he harbors animosity in his heart.
His words seem softer than oil,
but they are really like sharp swords.

<a name="55:22">55:22</a> Throw your burden upon the Lord,
and he will sustain you.
He will never allow the godly to be upended.

<a name="55:23">55:23</a> But you, O God, will bring them down to the deep Pit.
Violent and deceitful people will not live even half a normal lifespan.
But as for me, I trust in you.