---
title: 65
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


For the music director; a psalm of David, a song.


<a name="65:1">65:1</a> Praise awaits you, O God, in Zion.
Vows made to you are fulfilled.

<a name="65:2">65:2</a> You hear prayers;
all people approach you.

<a name="65:3">65:3</a> Our record of sins overwhelms me,
but you forgive our acts of rebellion.

<a name="65:4">65:4</a> How happy is the one whom you choose,
and allow to live in your palace courts.
May we be satisfied with the good things of your house — 
your holy palace.

<a name="65:5">65:5</a> You answer our prayers by performing awesome acts of deliverance,
O God, our savior.
All the ends of the earth trust in you,
as well as those living across the wide seas.

<a name="65:6">65:6</a> You created the mountains by your power,
and demonstrated your strength.

<a name="65:7">65:7</a> You calm the raging seas
and their roaring waves,
as well as the commotion made by the nations.

<a name="65:8">65:8</a> Even those living in the most remote areas are awestruck by your acts;
you cause those living in the east and west to praise you.

<a name="65:9">65:9</a> You visit the earth and give it rain;
you make it rich and fertile
with overflowing streams full of water.
You provide grain for them,
for you prepare the earth to yield its crops.

<a name="65:10">65:10</a> You saturate its furrows,
and soak its plowed ground.
With rain showers you soften its soil,
and make its crops grow.

<a name="65:11">65:11</a> You crown the year with your good blessings,
and you leave abundance in your wake.

<a name="65:12">65:12</a> The pastures in the wilderness glisten with moisture,
and the hills are clothed with joy.

<a name="65:13">65:13</a> The meadows are clothed with sheep,
and the valleys are covered with grain.
They shout joyfully, yes, they sing.