---
title: 66
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


For the music director; a song, a psalm.


<a name="66:1">66:1</a> Shout out praise to God, all the earth!

<a name="66:2">66:2</a> Sing praises about the majesty of his reputation!
Give him the honor he deserves!

<a name="66:3">66:3</a> Say to God:
“How awesome are your deeds!
Because of your great power your enemies cower in fear before you.

<a name="66:4">66:4</a> All the earth worships you
and sings praises to you!
They sing praises to your name!” (Selah)

<a name="66:5">66:5</a> Come and witness God’s exploits!
His acts on behalf of people are awesome!

<a name="66:6">66:6</a> He turned the sea into dry land;
they passed through the river on foot.
Let us rejoice in him there!

<a name="66:7">66:7</a> He rules by his power forever;
he watches the nations.
Stubborn rebels should not exalt themselves. (Selah)

<a name="66:8">66:8</a> Praise our God, you nations!
Loudly proclaim his praise!

<a name="66:9">66:9</a> He preserves our lives
and does not allow our feet to slip.

<a name="66:10">66:10</a> For you, O God, tested us;
you purified us like refined silver.

<a name="66:11">66:11</a> You led us into a trap;
you caused us to suffer.

<a name="66:12">66:12</a> You allowed men to ride over our heads;
we passed through fire and water,
but you brought us out into a wide open place.

<a name="66:13">66:13</a> I will enter your temple with burnt sacrifices;
I will fulfill the vows I made to you,

<a name="66:14">66:14</a> which my lips uttered
and my mouth spoke when I was in trouble.

<a name="66:15">66:15</a> I will offer up to you fattened animals as burnt sacrifices,
along with the smell of sacrificial rams.
I will offer cattle and goats. (Selah)

<a name="66:16">66:16</a> Come! Listen, all you who are loyal to God!
I will declare what he has done for me.

<a name="66:17">66:17</a> I cried out to him for help
and praised him with my tongue.

<a name="66:18">66:18</a> If I had harbored sin in my heart,
the sovereign Master would not have listened.

<a name="66:19">66:19</a> However, God heard;
he listened to my prayer.

<a name="66:20">66:20</a> God deserves praise,
for he did not reject my prayer
or abandon his love for me!