---
title: 73
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


A psalm by Asaph.

<a name="73:1">73:1</a> Certainly God is good to Israel,
and to those whose motives are pure!

<a name="73:2">73:2</a> But as for me, my feet almost slipped;
my feet almost slid out from under me.

<a name="73:3">73:3</a> For I envied those who are proud,
as I observed the prosperity of the wicked.

<a name="73:4">73:4</a> For they suffer no pain;
their bodies are strong and well-fed.

<a name="73:5">73:5</a> They are immune to the trouble common to men;
they do not suffer as other men do.

<a name="73:6">73:6</a> Arrogance is their necklace,
and violence their clothing.

<a name="73:7">73:7</a> Their prosperity causes them to do wrong;
their thoughts are sinful.

<a name="73:8">73:8</a> They mock and say evil things;
they proudly threaten violence.

<a name="73:9">73:9</a> They speak as if they rule in heaven,
and lay claim to the earth.

<a name="73:10">73:10</a> Therefore they have more than enough food to eat,
and even suck up the water of the sea.

<a name="73:11">73:11</a> They say, “How does God know what we do?
Is the sovereign one aware of what goes on?”

<a name="73:12">73:12</a> Take a good look! This is what the wicked are like,
those who always have it so easy and get richer and richer.

<a name="73:13">73:13</a> I concluded, “Surely in vain I have kept my motives pure
and maintained a pure lifestyle.

<a name="73:14">73:14</a> I suffer all day long,
and am punished every morning.”

<a name="73:15">73:15</a> If I had publicized these thoughts,
I would have betrayed your loyal followers.

<a name="73:16">73:16</a> When I tried to make sense of this,
it was troubling to me.

<a name="73:17">73:17</a> Then I entered the precincts of God’s temple,
and understood the destiny of the wicked.

<a name="73:18">73:18</a> Surely you put them in slippery places;
you bring them down to ruin.

<a name="73:19">73:19</a> How desolate they become in a mere moment!
Terrifying judgments make their demise complete!

<a name="73:20">73:20</a> They are like a dream after one wakes up.
O sovereign Master, when you awake you will despise them.

<a name="73:21">73:21</a> Yes, my spirit was bitter,
and my insides felt sharp pain.

<a name="73:22">73:22</a> I was ignorant and lacked insight;
I was as senseless as an animal before you.

<a name="73:23">73:23</a> But I am continually with you;
you hold my right hand.

<a name="73:24">73:24</a> You guide me by your wise advice,
and then you will lead me to a position of honor.

<a name="73:25">73:25</a> Whom do I have in heaven but you?
I desire no one but you on earth.

<a name="73:26">73:26</a> My flesh and my heart may grow weak,
but God always protects my heart and gives me stability.

<a name="73:27">73:27</a> Yes, look! Those far from you die;
you destroy everyone who is unfaithful to you.

<a name="73:28">73:28</a> But as for me, God’s presence is all I need.
I have made the sovereign Lord my shelter,
as I declare all the things you have done.