---
title: 81
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


For the music director; according to the gittith style; by Asaph.

<a name="81:1">81:1</a> Shout for joy to God, our source of strength!
Shout out to the God of Jacob!

<a name="81:2">81:2</a> Sing a song and play the tambourine,
the pleasant sounding harp, and the ten-stringed instrument!

<a name="81:3">81:3</a> Sound the ram’s horn on the day of the new moon,
and on the day of the full moon when our festival begins.

<a name="81:4">81:4</a> For observing the festival is a requirement for Israel;
it is an ordinance given by the God of Jacob.

<a name="81:5">81:5</a> He decreed it as a regulation in Joseph,
when he attacked the land of Egypt.
I heard a voice I did not recognize.

<a name="81:6">81:6</a> It said: “I removed the burden from his shoulder;
his hands were released from holding the basket.

<a name="81:7">81:7</a> In your distress you called out and I rescued you.
I answered you from a dark thundercloud.
I tested you at the waters of Meribah. (Selah)

<a name="81:8">81:8</a> I said, ‘Listen, my people!
I will warn you!
O Israel, if only you would obey me!

<a name="81:9">81:9</a> There must be no other god among you.
You must not worship a foreign god.

<a name="81:10">81:10</a> I am the Lord, your God,
the one who brought you out of the land of Egypt.
Open your mouth wide and I will fill it!’

<a name="81:11">81:11</a> But my people did not obey me;
Israel did not submit to me.

<a name="81:12">81:12</a> I gave them over to their stubborn desires;
they did what seemed right to them.

<a name="81:13">81:13</a> If only my people would obey me!
If only Israel would keep my commands!

<a name="81:14">81:14</a> Then I would quickly subdue their enemies,
and attack their adversaries.”

<a name="81:15">81:15</a> (May those who hate the Lord cower in fear before him!
May they be permanently humiliated!)

<a name="81:16">81:16</a> “I would feed Israel the best wheat,
and would satisfy your appetite with honey from the rocky cliffs.”