---
title: 83
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


A song, a psalm of Asaph.

<a name="83:1">83:1</a> O God, do not be silent!
Do not ignore us! Do not be inactive, O God!

<a name="83:2">83:2</a> For look, your enemies are making a commotion;
those who hate you are hostile.

<a name="83:3">83:3</a> They carefully plot against your people,
and make plans to harm the ones you cherish.

<a name="83:4">83:4</a> They say, “Come on, let’s annihilate them so they are no longer a nation!
Then the name of Israel will be remembered no more.”

<a name="83:5">83:5</a> Yes, they devise a unified strategy;
they form an alliance against you.

<a name="83:6">83:6</a> It includes the tents of Edom and the Ishmaelites,
Moab and the Hagrites,

<a name="83:7">83:7</a> Gebal, Ammon, and Amalek,
Philistia and the inhabitants of Tyre.

<a name="83:8">83:8</a> Even Assyria has allied with them,
lending its strength to the descendants of Lot. (Selah)

<a name="83:9">83:9</a> Do to them as you did to Midian — 
as you did to Sisera and Jabin at the Kishon River!

<a name="83:10">83:10</a> They were destroyed at Endor;
their corpses were like manure on the ground.

<a name="83:11">83:11</a> Make their nobles like Oreb and Zeeb,
and all their rulers like Zebah and Zalmunna,

<a name="83:12">83:12</a> who said, “Let’s take over the pastures of God!”

<a name="83:13">83:13</a> O my God, make them like dead thistles,
like dead weeds blown away by the wind!

<a name="83:14">83:14</a> Like the fire that burns down the forest,
or the flames that consume the mountainsides,

<a name="83:15">83:15</a> chase them with your gale winds,
and terrify them with your windstorm.

<a name="83:16">83:16</a> Cover their faces with shame,
so they might seek you, O Lord.

<a name="83:17">83:17</a> May they be humiliated and continually terrified!
May they die in shame!

<a name="83:18">83:18</a> Then they will know that you alone are the Lord,
the sovereign king over all the earth.