---
title: 84
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


For the music director; according to the gittith style; written by the Korahites, a psalm.

<a name="84:1">84:1</a> How lovely is the place where you live,
O sovereign Lord!

<a name="84:2">84:2</a> I desperately want to be
in the courts of the Lord’s temple.
My heart and my entire being shout for joy
to the living God.

<a name="84:3">84:3</a> Even the birds find a home there,
and the swallow builds a nest,
where she can protect her young
near your altars, O sovereign Lord,
my king and my God.

<a name="84:4">84:4</a> How happy are those who live in your temple
and praise you continually! (Selah)

<a name="84:5">84:5</a> How happy are those who find their strength in you,
and long to travel the roads that lead to your temple!

<a name="84:6">84:6</a> As they pass through the Baca Valley,
he provides a spring for them.
The rain even covers it with pools of water.

<a name="84:7">84:7</a> They are sustained as they travel along;
each one appears before God in Zion.

<a name="84:8">84:8</a> O Lord, sovereign God,
hear my prayer!
Listen, O God of Jacob! (Selah)

<a name="84:9">84:9</a> O God, take notice of our shield!
Show concern for your chosen king!

<a name="84:10">84:10</a> Certainly spending just one day in your temple courts is better
than spending a thousand elsewhere.
I would rather stand at the entrance to the temple of my God
than live in the tents of the wicked.

<a name="84:11">84:11</a> For the Lord God is our sovereign protector.
The Lord bestows favor and honor;
he withholds no good thing from those who have integrity.

<a name="84:12">84:12</a> O sovereign Lord,
how happy are those who trust in you!