---
title: 88
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


A song, a psalm written by the Korahites; for the music director; according to the machalath-leannoth style; a well-written song by Heman the Ezrachite.

<a name="88:1">88:1</a> O Lord God who delivers me!
By day I cry out
and at night I pray before you.

<a name="88:2">88:2</a> Listen to my prayer!
Pay attention to my cry for help!

<a name="88:3">88:3</a> For my life is filled with troubles
and I am ready to enter Sheol.

<a name="88:4">88:4</a> They treat me like those who descend into the grave.
I am like a helpless man,

<a name="88:5">88:5</a> adrift among the dead,
like corpses lying in the grave,
whom you remember no more,
and who are cut off from your power.

<a name="88:6">88:6</a> You place me in the lowest regions of the pit,
in the dark places, in the watery depths.

<a name="88:7">88:7</a> Your anger bears down on me,
and you overwhelm me with all your waves. (Selah)

<a name="88:8">88:8</a> You cause those who know me to keep their distance;
you make me an appalling sight to them.
I am trapped and cannot get free.

<a name="88:9">88:9</a> My eyes grow weak because of oppression.
I call out to you, O Lord, all day long;
I spread out my hands in prayer to you.

<a name="88:10">88:10</a> Do you accomplish amazing things for the dead?
Do the departed spirits rise up and give you thanks? (Selah)

<a name="88:11">88:11</a> Is your loyal love proclaimed in the grave,
or your faithfulness in the place of the dead?

<a name="88:12">88:12</a> Are your amazing deeds experienced in the dark region,
or your deliverance in the land of oblivion?

<a name="88:13">88:13</a> As for me, I cry out to you, O Lord;
in the morning my prayer confronts you.

<a name="88:14">88:14</a> O Lord, why do you reject me,
and pay no attention to me?

<a name="88:15">88:15</a> I am oppressed and have been on the verge of death since my youth.
I have been subjected to your horrors and am numb with pain.

<a name="88:16">88:16</a> Your anger overwhelms me;
your terrors destroy me.

<a name="88:17">88:17</a> They surround me like water all day long;
they join forces and encircle me.

<a name="88:18">88:18</a> You cause my friends and neighbors to keep their distance;
those who know me leave me alone in the darkness.