---
title: 89
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


A well-written song by Ethan the Ezrachite.

<a name="89:1">89:1</a> I will sing continually about the Lord’s faithful deeds;
to future generations I will proclaim your faithfulness.

<a name="89:2">89:2</a> For I say, “Loyal love is permanently established;
in the skies you set up your faithfulness.”

<a name="89:3">89:3</a> The Lord said,
“I have made a covenant with my chosen one;
I have made a promise on oath to David, my servant:

<a name="89:4">89:4</a> ‘I will give you an eternal dynasty
and establish your throne throughout future generations.’” (Selah)

<a name="89:5">89:5</a> O Lord, the heavens praise your amazing deeds,
as well your faithfulness in the angelic assembly.

<a name="89:6">89:6</a> For who in the skies can compare to the Lord?
Who is like the Lord among the supernatural beings,

<a name="89:7">89:7</a> a God who is honored in the great angelic assembly,
and more awesome than all who surround him?

<a name="89:8">89:8</a> O Lord, sovereign God!
Who is strong like you, O Lord?
Your faithfulness surrounds you.

<a name="89:9">89:9</a> You rule over the proud sea.
When its waves surge, you calm them.

<a name="89:10">89:10</a> You crushed the Proud One and killed it;
with your strong arm you scattered your enemies.

<a name="89:11">89:11</a> The heavens belong to you, as does the earth.
You made the world and all it contains.

<a name="89:12">89:12</a> You created the north and the south.
Tabor and Hermon rejoice in your name.

<a name="89:13">89:13</a> Your arm is powerful,
your hand strong,
your right hand victorious.

<a name="89:14">89:14</a> Equity and justice are the foundation of your throne.
Loyal love and faithfulness characterize your rule.

<a name="89:15">89:15</a> How happy are the people who worship you!
O Lord, they experience your favor.

<a name="89:16">89:16</a> They rejoice in your name all day long,
and are vindicated by your justice.

<a name="89:17">89:17</a> For you give them splendor and strength.
By your favor we are victorious.

<a name="89:18">89:18</a> For our shield belongs to the Lord,
our king to the sovereign Ruler of Israel.

<a name="89:19">89:19</a> Then you spoke through a vision to your faithful followers and said:
“I have energized a warrior;
I have raised up a young man from the people.

<a name="89:20">89:20</a> I have discovered David, my servant.
With my holy oil I have anointed him as king.

<a name="89:21">89:21</a> My hand will support him,
and my arm will strengthen him.

<a name="89:22">89:22</a> No enemy will be able to exact tribute from him;
a violent oppressor will not be able to humiliate him.

<a name="89:23">89:23</a> I will crush his enemies before him;
I will strike down those who hate him.

<a name="89:24">89:24</a> He will experience my faithfulness and loyal love,
and by my name he will win victories.

<a name="89:25">89:25</a> I will place his hand over the sea,
his right hand over the rivers.

<a name="89:26">89:26</a> He will call out to me,
‘You are my father, my God, and the protector who delivers me.’

<a name="89:27">89:27</a> I will appoint him to be my firstborn son,
the most exalted of the earth’s kings.

<a name="89:28">89:28</a> I will always extend my loyal love to him,
and my covenant with him is secure.

<a name="89:29">89:29</a> I will give him an eternal dynasty,
and make his throne as enduring as the skies above.

<a name="89:30">89:30</a> If his sons reject my law
and disobey my regulations,

<a name="89:31">89:31</a> if they break my rules
and do not keep my commandments,

<a name="89:32">89:32</a> I will punish their rebellion by beating them with a club,
their sin by inflicting them with bruises.

<a name="89:33">89:33</a> But I will not remove my loyal love from him,
nor be unfaithful to my promise.

<a name="89:34">89:34</a> I will not break my covenant
or go back on what I promised.

<a name="89:35">89:35</a> Once and for all I have vowed by my own holiness,
I will never deceive David.

<a name="89:36">89:36</a> His dynasty will last forever.
His throne will endure before me, like the sun,

<a name="89:37">89:37</a> it will remain stable, like the moon,
his throne will endure like the skies.” (Selah)

<a name="89:38">89:38</a> But you have spurned and rejected him;
you are angry with your chosen king.

<a name="89:39">89:39</a> You have repudiated your covenant with your servant;
you have thrown his crown to the ground.

<a name="89:40">89:40</a> You have broken down all his walls;
you have made his strongholds a heap of ruins.

<a name="89:41">89:41</a> All who pass by have robbed him;
he has become an object of disdain to his neighbors.

<a name="89:42">89:42</a> You have allowed his adversaries to be victorious,
and all his enemies to rejoice.

<a name="89:43">89:43</a> You turn back his sword from the adversary,
and have not sustained him in battle.

<a name="89:44">89:44</a> You have brought to an end his splendor,
and have knocked his throne to the ground.

<a name="89:45">89:45</a> You have cut short his youth,
and have covered him with shame. (Selah)

<a name="89:46">89:46</a> How long, O Lord, will this last?
Will you remain hidden forever?
Will your anger continue to burn like fire?

<a name="89:47">89:47</a> Take note of my brief lifespan!
Why do you make all people so mortal?

<a name="89:48">89:48</a> No man can live on without experiencing death,
or deliver his life from the power of Sheol. (Selah)

<a name="89:49">89:49</a> Where are your earlier faithful deeds, O sovereign Master,
the ones performed in accordance with your reliable oath to David?

<a name="89:50">89:50</a> Take note, O sovereign Master, of the way your servants are taunted,
and of how I must bear so many insults from people!

<a name="89:51">89:51</a> Your enemies, O Lord, hurl insults;
they insult your chosen king as they dog his footsteps.

<a name="89:52">89:52</a> The Lord deserves praise forevermore!
We agree! We agree!