---
title: 94
parent: Psalms
other: x
---


<a name="94:1">94:1</a> O Lord, the God who avenges!
O God who avenges, reveal your splendor!

<a name="94:2">94:2</a> Rise up, O judge of the earth!
Pay back the proud!

<a name="94:3">94:3</a> O Lord, how long will the wicked,
how long will the wicked celebrate?

<a name="94:4">94:4</a> They spew out threats and speak defiantly;
all the evildoers boast.

<a name="94:5">94:5</a> O Lord, they crush your people;
they oppress the nation that belongs to you.

<a name="94:6">94:6</a> They kill the widow and the one residing outside his native land,
and they murder the fatherless.

<a name="94:7">94:7</a> Then they say, “The Lord does not see this;
the God of Jacob does not take notice of it.”

<a name="94:8">94:8</a> Take notice of this, you ignorant people!
You fools, when will you ever understand?

<a name="94:9">94:9</a> Does the one who makes the human ear not hear?
Does the one who forms the human eye not see?

<a name="94:10">94:10</a> Does the one who disciplines the nations not punish?
He is the one who imparts knowledge to human beings!

<a name="94:11">94:11</a> The Lord knows that
peoples’ thoughts are morally bankrupt.

<a name="94:12">94:12</a> How happy is the one whom you instruct, O Lord,
the one whom you teach from your law,

<a name="94:13">94:13</a> in order to protect him from times of trouble,
until the wicked are destroyed.

<a name="94:14">94:14</a> Certainly the Lord does not forsake his people;
he does not abandon the nation that belongs to him.

<a name="94:15">94:15</a> For justice will prevail,
and all the morally upright will be vindicated.

<a name="94:16">94:16</a> Who will rise up to defend me against the wicked?
Who will stand up for me against the evildoers?

<a name="94:17">94:17</a> If the Lord had not helped me,
I would have laid down in the silence of death.

<a name="94:18">94:18</a> If I say, “My foot is slipping,”
your loyal love, O Lord, supports me.

<a name="94:19">94:19</a> When worries threaten to overwhelm me,
your soothing touch makes me happy.

<a name="94:20">94:20</a> Cruel rulers are not your allies,
those who make oppressive laws.

<a name="94:21">94:21</a> They conspire against the blameless,
and condemn to death the innocent.

<a name="94:22">94:22</a> But the Lord will protect me,
and my God will shelter me.

<a name="94:23">94:23</a> He will pay them back for their sin.
He will destroy them because of their evil;
the Lord our God will destroy them.