---
title: 01
parent: Revelation
other: x
---

<a name="1:1">1:1</a> The revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave him to show his servants what must happen very soon. He made it clear by sending his angel to his servant John, <a name="1:2">1:2</a> who then testified to everything that he saw concerning the word of God and the testimony about Jesus Christ. <a name="1:3">1:3</a> Blessed is the one who reads the words of this prophecy aloud, and blessed are those who hear and obey the things written in it, because the time is near!

<a name="1:4">1:4</a> From John, to the seven churches that are in the province of Asia: Grace and peace to you from “he who is,” and who was, and who is still to come, and from the seven spirits who are before his throne, <a name="1:5">1:5</a> and from Jesus Christ — the faithful witness, the firstborn from among the dead, the ruler over the kings of the earth. To the one who loves us and has set us free from our sins at the cost of his own blood <a name="1:6">1:6</a> and has appointed us as a kingdom, as priests serving his God and Father — to him be the glory and the power for ever and ever! Amen.

> <a name="1:7">1:7</a> (Look! He is returning with the clouds,
> and every eye will see him,
> even those who pierced him,
> and all the tribes on the earth will mourn because of him.
> This will certainly come to pass! Amen.)

<a name="1:8">1:8</a> “I am the Alpha and the Omega,” says the Lord God — the one who is, and who was, and who is still to come — the All-Powerful!

<a name="1:9">1:9</a> I, John, your brother and the one who shares with you in the persecution, kingdom, and endurance that are in Jesus, was on the island called Patmos because of the word of God and the testimony about Jesus. <a name="1:10">1:10</a> I was in the Spirit on the Lord’s Day when I heard behind me a loud voice like a trumpet, <a name="1:11">1:11</a> saying: “Write in a book what you see and send it to the seven churches — to Ephesus, Smyrna, Pergamum, Thyatira, Sardis, Philadelphia, and Laodicea.”

<a name="1:12">1:12</a> I turned to see whose voice was speaking to me, and when I did so, I saw seven golden lampstands, <a name="1:13">1:13</a> and in the midst of the lampstands was one like a son of man. He was dressed in a robe extending down to his feet and he wore a wide golden belt around his chest. <a name="1:14">1:14</a> His head and hair were as white as wool, even as white as snow, and his eyes were like a fiery flame. <a name="1:15">1:15</a> His feet were like polished bronze refined in a furnace, and his voice was like the roar of many waters. <a name="1:16">1:16</a> He held seven stars in his right hand, and a sharp double-edged sword extended out of his mouth. His face shone like the sun shining at full strength. <a name="1:17">1:17</a> When I saw him I fell down at his feet as though I were dead, but he placed his right hand on me and said: “Do not be afraid! I am the first and the last, <a name="1:18">1:18</a> and the one who lives! I was dead, but look, now I am alive — forever and ever — and I hold the keys of death and of Hades! <a name="1:19">1:19</a> Therefore write what you saw, what is, and what will be after these things. <a name="1:20">1:20</a> The mystery of the seven stars that you saw in my right hand and the seven golden lampstands is this: The seven stars are the angels of the seven churches and the seven lampstands are the seven churches.
