---
title: 03
parent: 1 Chronicles
other: x
---

## David’s Descendants

<a name="3:1">3:1</a> These were the sons of David who were born to him in Hebron:

The firstborn was Amnon, whose mother was Ahinoam from Jezreel;

the second was Daniel, whose mother was Abigail from Carmel;

<a name="3:2">3:2</a> the third was Absalom whose mother was Maacah, daughter of King Talmai of Geshur;

the fourth was Adonijah, whose mother was Haggith;

<a name="3:3">3:3</a> the fifth was Shephatiah, whose mother was Abital;

the sixth was Ithream, whose mother was Eglah.

<a name="3:4">3:4</a> These six were born to David in Hebron, where he ruled for seven years and six months.

He ruled thirty-three years in Jerusalem. <a name="3:5">3:5</a> These were the sons born to him in Jerusalem:

Shimea, Shobab, Nathan, and Solomon — the mother of these four was Bathsheba the daughter of Ammiel.

<a name="3:6">3:6</a> The other nine were Ibhar, Elishua, Elpelet, <a name="3:7">3:7</a> Nogah, Nepheg, Japhia, <a name="3:8">3:8</a> Elishama, Eliada, and Eliphelet.

<a name="3:9">3:9</a> These were all the sons of David, not counting the sons of his concubines. Tamar was their sister.

## Solomon’s Descendants

<a name="3:10">3:10</a> Solomon’s son was Rehoboam,

followed by Abijah his son,

Asa his son,

Jehoshaphat his son,

<a name="3:11">3:11</a> Joram his son,

Ahaziah his son,

Joash his son,

<a name="3:12">3:12</a> Amaziah his son,

Azariah his son,

Jotham his son,

<a name="3:13">3:13</a> Ahaz his son,

Hezekiah his son,

Manasseh his son,

<a name="3:14">3:14</a> Amon his son,

Josiah his son.

<a name="3:15">3:15</a> The sons of Josiah:

Johanan was the firstborn; Jehoiakim was born second; Zedekiah third; and Shallum fourth.

<a name="3:16">3:16</a> The sons of Jehoiakim:

his son Jehoiachin and his son Zedekiah.

<a name="3:17">3:17</a> The sons of Jehoiachin the exile:

Shealtiel his son, <a name="3:18">3:18</a> Malkiram, Pedaiah, Shenazzar, Jekamiah, Hoshama, and Nedabiah.

<a name="3:19">3:19</a> The sons of Pedaiah:

Zerubbabel and Shimei.

The sons of Zerubbabel:

Meshullam and Hananiah. Shelomith was their sister.

<a name="3:20">3:20</a> The five others were Hashubah, Ohel, Berechiah, Hasadiah, and Jushab-Hesed.

<a name="3:21">3:21</a> The descendants of Hananiah:

Pelatiah, Jeshaiah, the sons of Rephaiah, of Arnan, of Obadiah, and of Shecaniah.

<a name="3:22">3:22</a> The descendants of Shecaniah:

Shemaiah and his sons: Hattush, Igal, Bariah, Neariah, and Shaphat — six in all.

<a name="3:23">3:23</a> The sons of Neariah:

Elioenai, Hizkiah, and Azrikam — three in all.

<a name="3:24">3:24</a> The sons of Elioenai:

Hodaviah, Eliashib, Pelaiah, Akkub, Johanan, Delaiah, and Anani — seven in all.
