---
title: 24
parent: 1 Chronicles
other: x
---

## David Organizes the Musicians

<a name="25:1">25:1</a> David and the army officers selected some of the sons of Asaph, Heman, and Jeduthun to prophesy as they played stringed instruments and cymbals. The following men were assigned this responsibility:

<a name="25:2">25:2</a> From the sons of Asaph: Zakkur, Joseph, Nethaniah, and Asarelah. The sons of Asaph were supervised by Asaph, who prophesied under the king’s supervision.

<a name="25:3">25:3</a> From the sons of Jeduthun: Gedaliah, Zeri, Jeshaiah, Hashabiah, and Mattithiah — six in all, under supervision of their father Jeduthun, who prophesied as he played a harp, giving thanks and praise to the Lord.

<a name="25:4">25:4</a> From the sons of Heman: Bukkiah, Mattaniah, Uzziel, Shebuel, Jerimoth, Hananiah, Hanani, Eliathah, Giddalti, Romamti-Ezer, Joshbekashah, Mallothi, Hothir, and Machazioth. <a name="25:5">25:5</a> All these were the sons of Heman, the king’s prophet. God had promised him these sons in order to make him prestigious. God gave Heman fourteen sons and three daughters.

<a name="25:6">25:6</a> All of these were under the supervision of their fathers; they were musicians in the Lord’s temple, playing cymbals and stringed instruments as they served in God’s temple. Asaph, Jeduthun, and Heman were under the supervision of the king. <a name="25:7">25:7</a> They and their relatives, all of them skilled and trained to make music to the Lord, numbered 288.

<a name="25:8">25:8</a> They cast lots to determine their responsibilities — oldest as well as youngest, teacher as well as student.

<a name="25:9">25:9</a> The first lot went to Asaph’s son Joseph and his relatives and sons — twelve in all,

the second to Gedaliah and his relatives and sons — twelve in all,

<a name="25:10">25:10</a> the third to Zakkur and his sons and relatives — twelve in all,

<a name="25:11">25:11</a> the fourth to Izri and his sons and relatives — twelve in all,

<a name="25:12">25:12</a> the fifth to Nethaniah and his sons and relatives — twelve in all,

<a name="25:13">25:13</a> the sixth to Bukkiah and his sons and relatives — twelve in all,

<a name="25:14">25:14</a> the seventh to Jesharelah and his sons and relatives — twelve in all,

<a name="25:15">25:15</a> the eighth to Jeshaiah and his sons and relatives — twelve in all,

<a name="25:16">25:16</a> the ninth to Mattaniah and his sons and relatives — twelve in all,

<a name="25:17">25:17</a> the tenth to Shimei and his sons and relatives — twelve in all,

<a name="25:18">25:18</a> the eleventh to Azarel and his sons and relatives — twelve in all,

<a name="25:19">25:19</a> the twelfth to Hashabiah and his sons and relatives — twelve in all,

<a name="25:20">25:20</a> the thirteenth to Shubael and his sons and relatives — twelve in all,

<a name="25:21">25:21</a> the fourteenth to Mattithiah and his sons and relatives — twelve in all,

<a name="25:22">25:22</a> the fifteenth to Jerimoth and his sons and relatives — twelve in all,

<a name="25:23">25:23</a> the sixteenth to Hananiah and his sons and relatives — twelve in all,

<a name="25:24">25:24</a> the seventeenth to Joshbekashah and his sons and relatives — twelve in all,

<a name="25:25">25:25</a> the eighteenth to Hanani and his sons and relatives — twelve in all,

<a name="25:26">25:26</a> the nineteenth to Mallothi and his sons and relatives — twelve in all,

<a name="25:27">25:27</a> the twentieth to Eliathah and his sons and relatives — twelve in all,

<a name="25:28">25:28</a> the twenty-first to Hothir and his sons and relatives — twelve in all,

<a name="25:29">25:29</a> the twenty-second to Giddalti and his sons and relatives — twelve in all,

<a name="25:30">25:30</a> the twenty-third to Machazioth and his sons and relatives — twelve in all,

<a name="25:31">25:31</a> the twenty-fourth to Romamti-Ezer and his sons and relatives — twelve in all.
