---
title: 28
parent: 1 Chronicles
other: x
---

## The People Contribute to the Project

<a name="29:1">29:1</a> King David said to the entire assembly: “My son Solomon, the one whom God has chosen, is just an inexperienced young man, and the task is great, for this palace is not for man, but for the Lord God. <a name="29:2">29:2</a> So I have made every effort to provide what is needed for the temple of my God, including the gold, silver, bronze, iron, wood, as well as a large amount of onyx, settings of antimony and other stones, all kinds of precious stones, and alabaster. <a name="29:3">29:3</a> Now, to show my commitment to the temple of my God, I donate my personal treasure of gold and silver to the temple of my God, in addition to all that I have already supplied for this holy temple. <a name="29:4">29:4</a> This includes three thousand units of gold from Ophir and seven thousand units of refined silver for overlaying the walls of the buildings, <a name="29:5">29:5</a> for gold and silver items, and for all the work of the craftsmen. Who else wants to contribute to the Lord today?”

<a name="29:6">29:6</a> The leaders of the families, the leaders of the Israelite tribes, the commanders of units of a thousand and a hundred, and the supervisors of the king’s work contributed willingly. <a name="29:7">29:7</a> They donated for the service of God’s temple five thousand units and ten thousand darics of gold, ten thousand units of silver, eighteen thousand units of bronze, and one hundred thousand units of iron. <a name="29:8">29:8</a> All who possessed precious stones donated them to the treasury of the Lord’s temple, which was under the supervision of Jehiel the Gershonite. <a name="29:9">29:9</a> The people were delighted with their donations, for they contributed to the Lord with a willing attitude; King David was also very happy.

## David Praises the Lord

<a name="29:10">29:10</a> David praised the Lord before the entire assembly:

“O Lord God of our father Israel, you deserve praise forevermore! <a name="29:11">29:11</a> O Lord, you are great, mighty, majestic, magnificent, glorious, and sovereign over all the sky and earth! You have dominion and exalt yourself as the ruler of all. <a name="29:12">29:12</a> You are the source of wealth and honor; you rule over all. You possess strength and might to magnify and give strength to all. <a name="29:13">29:13</a> Now, our God, we give thanks to you and praise your majestic name.

<a name="29:14">29:14</a> “But who am I and who are my people, that we should be in a position to contribute this much? Indeed, everything comes from you, and we have simply given back to you what is yours. <a name="29:15">29:15</a> For we are resident foreigners and nomads in your presence, like all our ancestors; our days are like a shadow on the earth, without security. <a name="29:16">29:16</a> O Lord our God, all this wealth, which we have collected to build a temple for you to honor your holy name, comes from you; it all belongs to you. <a name="29:17">29:17</a> I know, my God, that you examine thoughts and are pleased with integrity. With pure motives I contribute all this; and now I look with joy as your people who have gathered here contribute to you. <a name="29:18">29:18</a> O Lord God of our ancestors Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, maintain the motives of your people and keep them devoted to you. <a name="29:19">29:19</a> Make my son Solomon willing to obey your commands, rules, and regulations, and to complete building the palace for which I have made preparations.”

<a name="29:20">29:20</a> David told the entire assembly: “Praise the Lord your God!” So the entire assembly praised the Lord God of their ancestors; they bowed down and stretched out flat on the ground before the Lord and the king.

## David Designates Solomon King

<a name="29:21">29:21</a> The next day they made sacrifices and offered burnt sacrifices to the Lord (a thousand bulls, a thousand rams, a thousand lambs), along with their accompanying drink offerings and many other sacrifices for all Israel. <a name="29:22">29:22</a> They held a feast before the Lord that day and celebrated.

Then they designated Solomon, David’s son, as king a second time; before the Lord they anointed him as ruler and Zadok as priest. <a name="29:23">29:23</a> Solomon sat on the Lord’s throne as king in place of his father David; he was successful and all Israel was loyal to him. <a name="29:24">29:24</a> All the officers and warriors, as well as all of King David’s sons, pledged their allegiance to King Solomon. <a name="29:25">29:25</a> The Lord greatly magnified Solomon before all Israel and bestowed on him greater majesty than any king of Israel before him.

## David’s Reign Comes to an End

<a name="29:26">29:26</a> David son of Jesse reigned over all Israel. <a name="29:27">29:27</a> He reigned over Israel forty years; he reigned in Hebron seven years and in Jerusalem thirty-three years. <a name="29:28">29:28</a> He died at a good old age, having enjoyed long life, wealth, and honor. His son Solomon succeeded him. <a name="29:29">29:29</a> King David’s accomplishments, from start to finish, are recorded in the Annals of Samuel the prophet, the Annals of Nathan the prophet, and the Annals of Gad the prophet. <a name="29:30">29:30</a> Recorded there are all the facts about his reign and accomplishments, and an account of the events that involved him, Israel, and all the neighboring kingdoms.