---
title: 21
parent: Joshua
other: x
---

## Levitical Cities

<a name="21:1">21:1</a> The tribal leaders of the Levites went before Eleazar the priest and Joshua son of Nun and the Israelite tribal leaders <a name="21:2">21:2</a> in Shiloh in the land of Canaan and said, “The Lord told Moses to assign us cities in which to live along with the grazing areas for our cattle.” <a name="21:3">21:3</a> So the Israelites assigned these cities and their grazing areas to the Levites from their own holdings, as the Lord had instructed.

<a name="21:4">21:4</a> The first lot belonged to the Kohathite clans. The Levites who were descendants of Aaron the priest were allotted thirteen cities from the tribes of Judah, Simeon, and Benjamin. <a name="21:5">21:5</a> The rest of Kohath’s descendants were allotted ten cities from the clans of the tribe of Ephraim, and from the tribe of Dan and the half-tribe of Manasseh. <a name="21:6">21:6</a> Gershon’s descendants were allotted thirteen cities from the clans of the tribe of Issachar, and from the tribes of Asher and Naphtali and the half-tribe of Manasseh in Bashan. <a name="21:7">21:7</a> Merari’s descendants by their clans were allotted twelve cities from the tribes of Reuben, Gad, and Zebulun. <a name="21:8">21:8</a> So the Israelites assigned to the Levites by lot these cities and their grazing areas, as the Lord had instructed Moses.

<a name="21:9">21:9</a> They assigned from the tribes of Judah and Simeon the cities listed below. <a name="21:10">21:10</a> They were assigned to the Kohathite clans of the Levites who were descendants of Aaron, for the first lot belonged to them. <a name="21:11">21:11</a> They assigned them Kiriath Arba (Arba was the father of Anak), that is, Hebron, in the hill country of Judah, along with its surrounding grazing areas. <a name="21:12">21:12</a> (Now the city’s fields and surrounding towns they had assigned to Caleb son of Jephunneh as his property.) <a name="21:13">21:13</a> So to the descendants of Aaron the priest they assigned Hebron (a city of refuge for one who committed manslaughter), Libnah, <a name="21:14">21:14</a> Jattir, Eshtemoa, <a name="21:15">21:15</a> Holon, Debir, <a name="21:16">21:16</a> Ain, Juttah, and Beth Shemesh, along with the grazing areas of each — a total of nine cities taken from these two tribes. <a name="21:17">21:17</a> From the tribe of Benjamin they assigned Gibeon, Geba, <a name="21:18">21:18</a> Anathoth, and Almon, along with the grazing areas of each — a total of four cities. <a name="21:19">21:19</a> The priests descended from Aaron received thirteen cities and their grazing areas.

<a name="21:20">21:20</a> The rest of the Kohathite clans of the Levites were allotted cities from the tribe of Ephraim. <a name="21:21">21:21</a> They assigned them Shechem (a city of refuge for one who committed manslaughter) in the hill country of Ephraim, Gezer, <a name="21:22">21:22</a> Kibzaim, and Beth Horon, along with the grazing areas of each — a total of four cities. <a name="21:23">21:23</a> From the tribe of Dan they assigned Eltekeh, Gibbethon, <a name="21:24">21:24</a> Aijalon, and Gath Rimmon, along with the grazing areas of each — a total of four cities. <a name="21:25">21:25</a> From the half-tribe of Manasseh they assigned Taanach and Gath Rimmon, along with the grazing areas of each — a total of two cities. <a name="21:26">21:26</a> The rest of the Kohathite clans received ten cities and their grazing areas.

<a name="21:27">21:27</a> They assigned to the Gershonite clans of the Levites the following cities: from the half-tribe of Manasseh: Golan in Bashan (a city of refuge for one who committed manslaughter) and Beeshtarah, along with the grazing areas of each — a total of two cities; <a name="21:28">21:28</a> from the tribe of Issachar: Kishon, Daberath, <a name="21:29">21:29</a> Jarmuth, and En Gannim, along with the grazing areas of each — a total of four cities; <a name="21:30">21:30</a> from the tribe of Asher: Mishal, Abdon, <a name="21:31">21:31</a> Helkath, and Rehob, along with the grazing areas of each — a total of four cities; <a name="21:32">21:32</a> from the tribe of Naphtali: Kedesh in Galilee (a city of refuge for one who committed manslaughter), Hammoth Dor, and Kartan, along with the grazing areas of each — a total of three cities. <a name="21:33">21:33</a> The Gershonite clans received thirteen cities and their grazing areas.

<a name="21:34">21:34</a> They assigned to the Merarite clans (the remaining Levites) the following cities: from the tribe of Zebulun: Jokneam, Kartah, <a name="21:35">21:35</a> Dimnah, and Nahalal, along with the grazing areas of each — a total of four cities; <a name="21:36">21:36</a> from the tribe of Reuben: Bezer, Jahaz, <a name="21:37">21:37</a> Kedemoth, and Mephaath, along with the grazing areas of each — a total of four cities; <a name="21:38">21:38</a> from the tribe of Gad: Ramoth in Gilead (a city of refuge for one who committed manslaughter), Mahanaim, <a name="21:39">21:39</a> Heshbon, and Jazer, along with the grazing areas of each — a total of four cities. <a name="21:40">21:40</a> The Merarite clans (the remaining Levites) were allotted twelve cities.

<a name="21:41">21:41</a> The Levites received within the land owned by the Israelites forty-eight cities in all and their grazing areas. <a name="21:42">21:42</a> Each of these cities had grazing areas around it; they were alike in this regard.

<a name="21:43">21:43</a> So the Lord gave Israel all the land he had solemnly promised to their ancestors, and they conquered it and lived in it. <a name="21:44">21:44</a> The Lord made them secure, in fulfillment of all he had solemnly promised their ancestors. None of their enemies could resist them. <a name="21:45">21:45</a> Not one of the Lord’s faithful promises to the family of Israel was left unfulfilled; every one was realized.