---
title: 12
parent: Daniel
other: x
---

> <a name="12:1">12:1</a> “At that time Michael,
> the great prince who watches over your people,
> will arise.
> There will be a time of distress
> unlike any other from the nation’s beginning
> up to that time.
> But at that time your own people,
> all those whose names are found written in the book,
> will escape.
> <a name="12:2">12:2</a> Many of those who sleep
> in the dusty ground will awake — 
> some to everlasting life,
> and others to shame and everlasting abhorrence.
> <a name="12:3">12:3</a> But the wise will shine
> like the brightness of the heavenly expanse.
> And those bringing many to righteousness
> will be like the stars forever and ever.

<a name="12:4">12:4</a> “But you, Daniel close up these words and seal the book until the time of the end. Many will dart to and fro, and knowledge will increase.”

<a name="12:5">12:5</a> I, Daniel, watched as two others stood there, one on each side of the river. <a name="12:6">12:6</a> One said to the man clothed in linen who was above the waters of the river, “When will the end of these wondrous events occur?” <a name="12:7">12:7</a> Then I heard the man clothed in linen who was over the waters of the river as he raised both his right and left hands to the sky and made an oath by the one who lives forever: “It is for a time, times, and half a time. Then when the power of the one who shatters the holy people has been exhausted, all these things will be finished.”

<a name="12:8">12:8</a> I heard, but I did not understand. So I said, “Sir, what will happen after these things?” <a name="12:9">12:9</a> He said, “Go, Daniel. For these matters are closed and sealed until the time of the end. <a name="12:10">12:10</a> Many will be purified, made clean, and refined, but the wicked will go on being wicked. None of the wicked will understand, though the wise will understand. <a name="12:11">12:11</a> From the time that the daily sacrifice is removed and the abomination that causes desolation is set in place, there are 1,290 days. <a name="12:12">12:12</a> Blessed is the one who waits and attains to the 1,335 days. <a name="12:13">12:13</a> But you should go your way until the end. You will rest and then at the end of the days you will arise to receive what you have been allotted.”
