---
title: 15
parent: Exodus
other: x
---

## The Victory at the Red Sea

<a name="14:1">14:1</a> And The Lord spoke to Moses: <a name="14:2">14:2</a> “Tell the Israelites that they may turn and camp before Pi-hahiroth, between Migdol and the sea; opposite Baal Zephon you are to camp by the sea. <a name="14:3">14:3</a> And Pharaoh will think that the Israelites are wandering around confused in the land  —  the desert has closed in on them. <a name="14:4">14:4</a> And I will harden the heart of Pharaoh and he will chase after them, and I will be honored because of Pharaoh and because of his army; and the Egyptians will know that I am The Lord.” So this is what they did.

<a name="14:5">14:5</a> It was reported to the king of Egypt that the people had fled; and the heart of Pharaoh and his servants was turned against the people. So he said, “What in the world have we done? For we have released the people of Israel from serving us!” <a name="14:6">14:6</a> Then he prepared his chariots and took his army with him. <a name="14:7">14:7</a> And he took six hundred of the best chariots, and all the chariots of Egypt, and officers on all of them.

<a name="14:8">14:8</a> But The Lord hardened the heart of Pharaoh, the king of Egypt; and he chased after the Israelites. Now the Israelites were going out defiantly. <a name="14:9">14:9</a> And the Egyptians chased after them, and all the horses and chariots of Pharaoh, and his horsemen, and his army, overtook them camping by the sea, beside Pi-hahiroth, opposite Baal-Zephon. <a name="14:10">14:10</a> When Pharaoh got closer, the Israelites looked up and saw that the Egyptians were marching after them. They were terrified. Then the Israelites cried out to The Lord. <a name="14:11">14:11</a> And they said to Moses, “Was it because there were no graves in Egypt that you took us away to die in the desert? What in the world have you done to us by bringing us out of Egypt? <a name="14:12">14:12</a> Was this not what we told you in Egypt, ‘Leave us alone that we may serve the Egyptians?’ For it would have been better for us to serve the Egyptians than to die in the desert!”

<a name="14:13">14:13</a> And Moses said to the people, “Do not fear! Stand firm and see the salvation of The Lord that he will provide for you today; for the Egyptians that you see today you will never, ever see again. <a name="14:14">14:14</a> The Lord will fight for you, and you can be still.”

<a name="14:15">14:15</a> And The Lord said to Moses, “Why do you cry out to me? Tell the Israelites to go forward. <a name="14:16">14:16</a> But as for you, lift up your rod and extend your hand toward the sea and divide it, so that the Israelites may go in the midst of the sea on dry ground. <a name="14:17">14:17</a> But I am going to harden the hearts of the Egyptians so that they will pursue them, that I may be honored because of Pharaoh and because of his army and because of his chariots and because of his horsemen. <a name="14:18">14:18</a> And the Egyptians will know that I am The Lord when I have gained my honor because of Pharaoh, because of his chariots, and because of his horsemen.”

<a name="14:19">14:19</a> The angel of God, who was going before the camp of Israel, moved and went behind them, and the pillar of cloud moved from before them and stood behind them. <a name="14:20">14:20</a> It came between the camp of the Egyptians and the camp of Israel; it was a dark cloud and it lit up the night so that one camp did not come near the other the whole night. <a name="14:21">14:21</a> And Moses stretched out his hand toward the sea, and The Lord caused the sea to go apart by a strong east wind all that night, and he made the sea into dry land, and the waters were divided. <a name="14:22">14:22</a> So the Israelites went into the midst of the sea on dry ground, the waters forming a wall for them on their right and on their left.

<a name="14:23">14:23</a> And the Egyptians chased after them; they went into the midst of the sea after them  —  all the horses of Pharaoh, his chariots, and his horsemen. <a name="14:24">14:24</a> And in the morning watch The Lord looked down on the host of Egyptians through the pillar of fire and cloud, and he threw the Egyptians into a panic. <a name="14:25">14:25</a> He jammed the wheels of their chariots so they had difficulty driving, and the Egyptians said, “Let’s flee from the presence of Israel, for The Lord fights for them against Egypt.”

<a name="14:26">14:26</a> And The Lord said to Moses, “Extend your hand toward the sea, so that the waters may flow back on the Egyptians, on their chariots, and on their horsemen!” <a name="14:27">14:27</a> So Moses extended his hand toward the sea, and the sea returned to its normal state when morning appeared. Now the Egyptians were fleeing before it, but The Lord overthrew the Egyptians in the midst of the sea. <a name="14:28">14:28</a> The waters returned and covered the chariots, and the horsemen, and all the army of Pharaoh that was pursuing the Israelites into the sea  —  not so much as one of them survived. <a name="14:29">14:29</a> But the Israelites walked on dry ground in the midst of the sea  —  the waters were like a wall to them on their right hand and on their left hand. <a name="14:30">14:30</a> So The Lord saved Israel on that day from the hand of the Egyptians; and Israel saw the Egyptians dead on the shore of the sea. <a name="14:31">14:31</a> When Israel saw the great power that The Lord had exercised over the Egyptians, they feared The Lord, and they believed in The Lord and in his servant Moses.