---
title: 16
parent: Exodus
other: x
---

## The Song of Triumph

<a name="15:1">15:1</a> Then Moses and the Israelites sang this song to the Lord:

> “I will sing to The Lord for he has triumphed gloriously,
> the horse and its rider he has thrown into the sea.
> <a name="15:2">15:2</a> The Lord is my strength and my song,
> and he has become my salvation.
> This is my God, and I will praise him,
> my father’s God, and I will exalt him.
> <a name="15:3">15:3</a> The Lord is a man of war,
> The Lord is his name.
> <a name="15:4">15:4</a> The chariots of Pharaoh and his army he has thrown into the sea,
> and his chosen officers were drowned in the Red Sea.
> <a name="15:5">15:5</a> The depths have covered over them,
> they went down to the bottom like a stone.
> <a name="15:6">15:6</a> Your right hand, O Lord, was majestic in power,
> your right hand, O Lord, shattered the enemy.
> <a name="15:7">15:7</a> And in the greatness of your majesty you have overthrown
> those who rise up against you.
> You sent forth your wrath;
> it consumed them like stubble.
> <a name="15:8">15:8</a> And by the blast of your nostrils the waters were piled up,
> the waters stood upright like a heap,
> and the deep waters were congealed in the heart of the sea.
> <a name="15:9">15:9</a> The enemy said, “I will chase, I will overtake,
> I will divide the spoil;
> my desire will be satisfied on them.
> I will draw my sword, my hand will destroy them.”
> <a name="15:10">15:10</a> But you blew with your breath, and the sea covered them.
> They sank like lead in the mighty waters.
> <a name="15:11">15:11</a> Who is like you, O Lord, among the gods?
> Who is like you?  —  majestic in holiness,
> fearful in praises, working wonders?
> <a name="15:12">15:12</a> You stretched out your right hand,
> the earth swallowed them.
> <a name="15:13">15:13</a> By your loyal love you will lead the people
> whom you have redeemed;
> you will guide them by your strength to your holy habitation.
> <a name="15:14">15:14</a> The people will hear and be afraid;
> anguish will take hold of the inhabitants of Philistia.
> <a name="15:15">15:15</a> Then the chiefs of Edom will be terrified,
> the leaders of Moab will be seized with trembling,
> and the inhabitants of Canaan will melt away.
> <a name="15:16">15:16</a> Fear and dread will fall on them;
> by the greatness of your arm they will be as still as stone
> until your people pass over, O Lord,
> until the people pass over, which you have bought.
> <a name="15:17">15:17</a> You will bring them in
> and plant them in the mountain of your inheritance,
> in the place, O Lord, you made for your residence,
> the sanctuary, O Lord, your hands have established.
> <a name="15:18">15:18</a> The Lord will reign forever and ever!
> <a name="15:19">15:19</a> For the horses of Pharaoh went
> with his chariots and his footmen into the seas,
> and The Lord brought again the waters of the sea on them,
> but the Israelites went on dry land in the midst of the sea.”

<a name="15:20">15:20</a> Then Miriam the prophetess, the sister of Aaron, took a hand-drum in her hand, and all the women went out after her with hand-drums and with dances. <a name="15:21">15:21</a> And Miriam sang in response to them, 

> “Sing to The Lord, for he has triumphed gloriously; the horse and its rider he has thrown into the sea.”

## The Bitter Water

<a name="15:22">15:22</a> Then Moses caused Israel to journey from the Red Sea, and they went out into the desert of Shur. They went three days into the desert, and they found no water. <a name="15:23">15:23</a> Then they came to Marah, but they were not able to drink the waters of Marah, because they were bitter. (That is why its name was called Marah.)

<a name="15:24">15:24</a> So the people murmured against Moses, saying, “What can we drink?” <a name="15:25">15:25</a> Moses cried out to The Lord, and The Lord showed him a tree. When he threw it into the waters, the waters became safe to drink. There he made for them a binding ordinance, and there he tested them, <a name="15:26">15:26</a> and said, “If you will diligently obey The Lord your God, and do what is right in his eyes, and give ear to his commandments, and keep all his statutes, then all the diseases that I put on the Egyptians I will not put on you, for I, The Lord, am your healer.”

<a name="15:27">15:27</a> Then they came to Elim, where there were twelve wells of water and seventy palm trees. And they camped there by the waters.