---
title: 24
parent: Exodus
other: x
---

## Justice

<a name="23:1">23:1</a> You must not give a false report. Do not put your hand with the wicked to be a malicious witness.

<a name="23:2">23:2</a> You must not go after a crowd into evil things; in a lawsuit you must not offer testimony that agrees with a crowd so as to pervert justice, <a name="23:3">23:3</a> and you must not show favor to a poor man in his lawsuit.

<a name="23:4">23:4</a> If you come across your enemy’s ox or donkey wandering off, you must by all means return it to him. <a name="23:5">23:5</a> If you see the donkey of the one who hates you lying under its load, you must not ignore him, but be sure to help him with it.

<a name="23:6">23:6</a> You must not turn away justice for your poor in their lawsuits. <a name="23:7">23:7</a> Keep your distance from a false charge  —  do not kill the innocent and the righteous, for I do not justify the wicked.

<a name="23:8">23:8</a> And you must not receive a bribe, for a bribe blinds those who see and subverts the words of the righteous.

<a name="23:9">23:9</a> And you must not oppress a resident foreigner, for you know the life of a resident foreigner, for you were resident foreigners in the land of Egypt.

## Sabbaths and Feasts

<a name="23:10">23:10</a> For six years you are to sow your land and gather in its produce. <a name="23:11">23:11</a> But in the seventh year you must let it lie fallow and leave it alone so that the poor of your people may eat, and what they leave the animals may eat; you must do likewise with your vineyard and your olive grove. <a name="23:12">23:12</a> For six days you are to do your work, but on the seventh day you must cease, in order that your ox and your donkey may rest and that your female servant’s son and any hired help may refresh themselves.

<a name="23:13">23:13</a> Pay attention to do everything I have told you, and do not make mention of the names of other gods  —  do not let them be heard on your lips.

<a name="23:14">23:14</a> Three times in the year you must make a pilgrim feast to me. <a name="23:15">23:15</a> You are to observe the Feast of Unleavened Bread; seven days you must eat unleavened bread, as I commanded you, at the appointed time of the month of Abib, for at that time you came out of Egypt. No one may appear before me empty.

<a name="23:16">23:16</a> You are also to observe the Feast of Harvest, the first-fruits of your labors that you have sown in the field, and the Feast of Ingathering at the end of the year when you have gathered in your labors out of the field. <a name="23:17">23:17</a> At three times in the year all your males will appear before the Lord God.

<a name="23:18">23:18</a> You must not offer the blood of my sacrifice with leavened bread; the fat of my festal sacrifice must not remain until morning. <a name="23:19">23:19</a> The first of the first-fruits of your soil you must bring to the house of The Lord your God.

You must not cook a young goat in its mother’s milk.

## The Angel of the Presence

<a name="23:20">23:20</a> I am going to send an angel before you, to protect you in the way, and to bring you into the place which I have prepared. <a name="23:21">23:21</a> Take heed because of him, and obey his voice; do not rebel against him, for he will not pardon your transgressions, for my name is in him. <a name="23:22">23:22</a> But if you diligently obey him, and do all that I speak, then I will be an enemy to your enemies, and I will be an adversary to your adversaries. <a name="23:23">23:23</a> For my angel will go before you, and bring you in to the Amorites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Canaanites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites, and I will cut them off.

<a name="23:24">23:24</a> You must not bow down to their gods; you must not serve them nor do according to their practices. But you must completely overthrow them and smash their standing stones to pieces. <a name="23:25">23:25</a> But you must serve The Lord your God, and he will bless your bread and your water, and I will remove sickness from your midst. <a name="23:26">23:26</a> None will miscarry her young or be barren in your land. I will fulfill the number of your days.

<a name="23:27">23:27</a> I will send my fear before you, and I will destroy all the people to whom you come; I will make all your enemies turn their backs to you. <a name="23:28">23:28</a> I will send hornets before you that will drive out the Hivite, the Canaanite, and the Hittite before you. <a name="23:29">23:29</a> I will not drive them out from before you in one year, lest the land become desolate, and the wild animals multiply against you. <a name="23:30">23:30</a> Little by little I will drive them out before you, until you become fruitful and inherit the land. <a name="23:31">23:31</a> And I will set your boundaries from the Red Sea as far as to the sea of the Philistines, and from the desert to the river, for I will deliver the inhabitants of the land into your hand, and you will drive them out before you.

<a name="23:32">23:32</a> You must make no covenant with them or with their gods. <a name="23:33">23:33</a> They must not live in your land, lest they make you sin against me, for if you serve their gods, it will surely be a snare to you.