---
title: 30
parent: Exodus
other: x
---

## The Consecration of Aaron

<a name="29:1">29:1</a> Now this is the ritual that you are to do to them to sanctify them so that they may minister as my priests. Take a young bull and two rams without blemish; <a name="29:2">29:2</a> and unleavened bread, and perforated unleavened cakes mixed with oil, and unleavened wafers spread with oil  —  you are to make them using fine wheat flour. <a name="29:3">29:3</a> And you are to put them in one basket, and present them in the basket, along with the bull and the two rams.

<a name="29:4">29:4</a> And you are to bring Aaron and his sons near to the entrance of the tent of meeting; and you are to wash them with water. <a name="29:5">29:5</a> And you are to take the garments and clothe Aaron with the tunic, the robe of the ephod, the ephod, and the breastpiece; you are to fasten the ephod on him by using the skillfully woven waistband. <a name="29:6">29:6</a> And put the turban on his head, and put the holy crown on the turban. <a name="29:7">29:7</a> And you are to take the anointing oil and pour it on his head and anoint him. <a name="29:8">29:8</a> And you are to bring his sons near and clothe them with tunics <a name="29:9">29:9</a> and wrap the sashes around Aaron and his sons, and put headbands on them, and so the ministry of priesthood will belong to them by a perpetual ordinance. Thus you are to ordain Aaron and his sons.

<a name="29:10">29:10</a> And you are to bring the bull in front of the tent of meeting, and Aaron and his sons are to put their hands on the head of the bull; <a name="29:11">29:11</a> and you are to kill the bull before The Lord at the entrance to the tent of meeting. <a name="29:12">29:12</a> And you are to take some of the blood of the bull and put it on the horns of the altar with your finger, and all the rest of the blood you are to pour out at the base of the altar. <a name="29:13">29:13</a> And you are to take all the fat that covers the entrails, and the lobe that is above the liver, and the two kidneys and the fat that is on them, and burn them on the altar. <a name="29:14">29:14</a> But the meat of the bull, its skin, and its dung you are to burn with fire outside the camp. It is the purification offering.

<a name="29:15">29:15</a> And you are to take one ram, and Aaron and his sons are to lay their hands on its head, <a name="29:16">29:16</a> and you are to kill the ram and take its blood and splash it all around on the altar. <a name="29:17">29:17</a> Then you are to cut the ram into pieces, and wash the entrails and its legs, and put them on its pieces and on its head. <a name="29:18">29:18</a> And you are to burn the whole ram on the altar. It is a burnt offering to The Lord, a soothing aroma; it is an offering made by fire to The Lord.

<a name="29:19">29:19</a> And you are to take the second ram; and Aaron and his sons are to lay their hands on the head of the ram. <a name="29:20">29:20</a> Then you are to kill the ram and take some of its blood and put it on the tip of the right ear of Aaron, and on the tip of the right ear of his sons, and on the thumb of their right hand, and on the big toe of their right foot, and then splash the blood all around on the altar. <a name="29:21">29:21</a> And you are to take some of the blood that is on the altar and some of the anointing oil, and sprinkle it on Aaron and on his garments and on his sons and on his sons’ garments with him, so that he may be holy, he and his garments and his sons and his sons’ garments with him.

<a name="29:22">29:22</a> And you are to take from the ram the fat, the fat tail, the fat that covers the entrails, the lobe of the liver, the two kidneys and the fat that is on them, and the right thigh  —  for it is the ram for ordination  —  <a name="29:23">29:23</a> and one round flat cake of bread, one perforated cake of oiled bread, and one wafer from the basket of unleavened bread that is before The Lord. <a name="29:24">29:24</a> And you are to put all these in Aaron’s hands and in his sons’ hands, and you are to wave them as a wave offering before The Lord. <a name="29:25">29:25</a> Then you are to take them from their hands and burn them on the altar for a burnt offering, for a soothing aroma before The Lord. It is an offering made by fire to The Lord. <a name="29:26">29:26</a> And you are to take the breast of the ram of Aaron’s ordination, and you are to wave it as a wave offering before The Lord; and it is to be your share. <a name="29:27">29:27</a> And you are to sanctify the breast of the wave offering, and the thigh of the contribution, which were waved and lifted up as a contribution from the ram of ordination, from what belongs to Aaron and to his sons. <a name="29:28">29:28</a> And it is to be the share for Aaron and for his sons from the Israelites, by a perpetual ordinance, for it is a contribution. It is to be a contribution from the Israelites from their peace offerings, their contribution to The Lord.

<a name="29:29">29:29</a> And the holy garments that belong to Aaron are to belong to his sons after him, so that they may be anointed in them and ordained in them. <a name="29:30">29:30</a> The priest who succeeds him from his sons, when he first comes to the tent of meeting to minister in the Holy Place, is to wear them for seven days.

<a name="29:31">29:31</a> You are to take the ram of the ordination and cook its flesh in a holy place. <a name="29:32">29:32</a> And Aaron and his sons are to eat the meat of the ram and the bread that was in the basket at the entrance of the tent of meeting. <a name="29:33">29:33</a> And they are to eat those things by which atonement was made to ordain and to sanctify them, but no one else may eat them, for they are holy. <a name="29:34">29:34</a> And if any of the meat of the ordination offerings or any of the bread is left over until morning, then you are to burn what is left over with fire. It must not be eaten, because it is holy.

<a name="29:35">29:35</a> And thus you are to do to Aaron and his sons, according to all that I have commanded you; you are to ordain them for seven days. <a name="29:36">29:36</a> And every day you are to prepare a bull for a sin offering for atonement. You are to purge the altar by making atonement for it, and you are to anoint it to sanctify it. <a name="29:37">29:37</a> For seven days you are to make atonement for the altar and sanctify it. Then the altar will be most holy. Anything that touches the altar will be holy.

<a name="29:38">29:38</a> Now this is what you are to prepare on the altar every day continually: two lambs a year old. <a name="29:39">29:39</a> The one lamb you are to prepare in the morning, and the second lamb you are to prepare between the evenings. <a name="29:40">29:40</a> And with the first lamb offer a tenth of an ephah of fine flour mixed with a fourth of a hin of oil from pressed olives, and a fourth of a hin of wine as a drink offering. <a name="29:41">29:41</a> And the second lamb you are to offer between the evenings; you are to prepare it like the meal offering of the morning and like its drink offering, for a soothing aroma, an offering made by fire to The Lord.

<a name="29:42">29:42</a> This will be a regular burnt offering throughout your generations at the entrance of the tent of meeting before The Lord, where I will meet with you to speak to you there. <a name="29:43">29:43</a> And there I will meet with the Israelites, and it will be sanctified by my glory.

<a name="29:44">29:44</a> So I will sanctify the tent of meeting and the altar; and I will sanctify Aaron and his sons, that they may minister as priests to me. <a name="29:45">29:45</a> And I will reside among the Israelites, and I will be their God. <a name="29:46">29:46</a> And they will know that I am The Lord their God, who brought them out from the land of Egypt, so that I may reside among them. I am The Lord their God.