---
title: 36
parent: Exodus
other: x
---

## Sabbath Regulations

<a name="35:1">35:1</a> And Moses assembled all the community of the Israelites and said to them, “These are the words that The Lord has commanded you to do. <a name="35:2">35:2</a> In six days work may be done, but on the seventh day there must be a holy day for you, a Sabbath of complete rest to The Lord. Anyone who does work on it will be put to death. <a name="35:3">35:3</a> You must not kindle a fire in all your homes on the Sabbath day.

## Willing Workers

<a name="35:4">35:4</a> And Moses spoke to all the community of the Israelites, “This is the word that The Lord has commanded: <a name="35:5">35:5</a> ‘Take from you an offering for The Lord. Let everyone who has a willing heart bring an offering to The Lord, gold, silver, bronze, <a name="35:6">35:6</a> blue, purple, and scarlet yarn, fine linen, goat’s hair, <a name="35:7">35:7</a> ram’s skins dyed red, fine leather, acacia wood, <a name="35:8">35:8</a> olive oil for the light, spices for the anointing oil and for the fragrant incense, <a name="35:9">35:9</a> onyx stones, and other gems for mounting on the ephod and the breastpiece. <a name="35:10">35:10</a> And every skilled person among you is to come and make all that The Lord has commanded: <a name="35:11">35:11</a> the tabernacle with its tent, its covering, its clasps, its frames, its crossbars, its posts, and its bases; <a name="35:12">35:12</a> the ark, with its poles, the propitiatory lid, and the veil that conceals; <a name="35:13">35:13</a> the table with its poles and all its vessels, and the bread of the Presence; <a name="35:14">35:14</a> the lampstand for the light and its accessories, its lamps, and oil for the light; <a name="35:15">35:15</a> and the altar of incense with its poles, and the anointing oil, and the fragrant incense, and the hanging for the door at the entrance of the tabernacle; <a name="35:16">35:16</a> the altar for the burnt offering with its bronze grating that is on it, its poles, and all its utensils; the laver and its pedestal; <a name="35:17">35:17</a> the hangings of the courtyard, its posts and its bases, and the curtain for the gateway to the courtyard; <a name="35:18">35:18</a> tent pegs for the tabernacle and tent pegs for the courtyard and their ropes; <a name="35:19">35:19</a> the woven garments for serving in the holy place, the holy garments for Aaron the priest, and the garments for his sons to minister as priests.”

<a name="35:20">35:20</a> So all the community of the Israelites went out from the presence of Moses. <a name="35:21">35:21</a> And they came forward  —  every one whose heart stirred him up, and every one whose spirit was willing; they brought the offering for The Lord for the work of the tent of meeting, and for all its service, and for the holy garments. <a name="35:22">35:22</a> And they came forward, men and women alike, all who had willing hearts; they brought brooches, earrings, rings and ornaments, all kinds of gold jewelry, and every one who waved a wave offering of gold to The Lord.

<a name="35:23">35:23</a> And every one who had blue or purple or scarlet yarn, or fine linen, or goats’ hair, or rams’ skin dyed red, or fine leather, brought them. <a name="35:24">35:24</a> Everyone making an offering of silver or bronze brought it as an offering to The Lord, and everyone who had acacia wood for any work of the service brought it. <a name="35:25">35:25</a> And every woman who was skilled spun with her hands, and brought what she had spun, blue, or purple, or scarlet yarn, or fine linen. <a name="35:26">35:26</a> And all the women whose heart stirred them up and who were skilled, spun goats’ hair.

<a name="35:27">35:27</a> And the leaders brought onyx stones, and other gems for mounting for the ephod and the breastpiece; <a name="35:28">35:28</a> and spices, and olive oil for the light and for the anointing oil, and for the fragrant incense.

<a name="35:29">35:29</a> The Israelites brought a freewill offering to The Lord, every man and woman whose heart was willing to bring for all the work which The Lord had commanded them to do through Moses.

<a name="35:30">35:30</a> Then Moses said to the Israelites, “See, The Lord has called by name Bezalel son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah. <a name="35:31">35:31</a> He has filled him with the Spirit of God  —  with skill, with understanding, with knowledge, and with all kinds of work, <a name="35:32">35:32</a> to design artistic designs, to work in gold, in silver, and in bronze, <a name="35:33">35:33</a> and in cutting stones for their setting, and in cutting wood, to do work in every artistic craft. <a name="35:34">35:34</a> And he has put it in his heart to teach, he and Oholiab son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan. <a name="35:35">35:35</a> He has filled them with skill to do all kinds of work as craftsmen, designers, embroiderers in blue and purple and scarlet yarn and in fine linen, and weavers. They are craftsmen in all the work and artistic designers.