---
title: 06
parent: Galatians
other: x
---

## Support One Another

<a name="6:1">6:1</a> Brothers and sisters, if a person is discovered in some sin, you who are spiritual restore such a person in a spirit of gentleness. Pay close attention to yourselves, so that you are not tempted too. <a name="6:2">6:2</a> Carry one another’s burdens, and in this way you will fulfill the law of Christ. <a name="6:3">6:3</a> For if anyone thinks he is something when he is nothing, he deceives himself. <a name="6:4">6:4</a> Let each one examine his own work. Then he can take pride in himself and not compare himself with someone else. <a name="6:5">6:5</a> For each one will carry his own load.

<a name="6:6">6:6</a> Now the one who receives instruction in the word must share all good things with the one who teaches it. <a name="6:7">6:7</a> Do not be deceived. God will not be made a fool. For a person will reap what he sows, <a name="6:8">6:8</a> because the person who sows to his own flesh will reap corruption from the flesh, but the one who sows to the Spirit will reap eternal life from the Spirit. <a name="6:9">6:9</a> So we must not grow weary in doing good, for in due time we will reap, if we do not give up. <a name="6:10">6:10</a> So then, whenever we have an opportunity, let us do good to all people, and especially to those who belong to the family of faith.

## Final Instructions and Benediction

<a name="6:11">6:11</a> See what big letters I make as I write to you with my own hand!

<a name="6:12">6:12</a> Those who want to make a good showing in external matters are trying to force you to be circumcised. They do so only to avoid being persecuted for the cross of Christ. <a name="6:13">6:13</a> For those who are circumcised do not obey the law themselves, but they want you to be circumcised so that they can boast about your flesh. <a name="6:14">6:14</a> But may I never boast except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, through which the world has been crucified to me, and I to the world. <a name="6:15">6:15</a> For neither circumcision nor uncircumcision counts for anything; the only thing that matters is a new creation! <a name="6:16">6:16</a> And all who will behave in accordance with this rule, peace and mercy be on them, and on the Israel of God.

<a name="6:17">6:17</a> From now on let no one cause me trouble, for I bear the marks of Jesus on my body.

<a name="6:18">6:18</a> The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit, brothers and sisters. Amen.
