---
title: 04
parent: Mark
other: x
---

## The Parable of the Sower

<a name="4:1">4:1</a> Again he began to teach by the lake. Such a large crowd gathered around him that he got into a boat on the lake and sat there while the whole crowd was on the shore by the lake. <a name="4:2">4:2</a> He taught them many things in parables, and in his teaching said to them: <a name="4:3">4:3</a> “Listen! A sower went out to sow. <a name="4:4">4:4</a> And as he sowed, some seed fell along the path, and the birds came and devoured it. <a name="4:5">4:5</a> Other seed fell on rocky ground where it did not have much soil. It sprang up at once because the soil was not deep. <a name="4:6">4:6</a> When the sun came up it was scorched, and because it did not have sufficient root, it withered. <a name="4:7">4:7</a> Other seed fell among the thorns, and they grew up and choked it, and it did not produce grain. <a name="4:8">4:8</a> But other seed fell on good soil and produced grain, sprouting and growing; some yielded thirty times as much, some sixty, and some a hundred times.” <a name="4:9">4:9</a> And he said, “Whoever has ears to hear had better listen!”

## The Purpose of Parables

<a name="4:10">4:10</a> When he was alone, those around him with the twelve asked him about the parables. <a name="4:11">4:11</a> He said to them, “The secret of the kingdom of God has been given to you. But to those outside, everything is in parables,

> <a name="4:12">4:12</a> so that although they look they may look but not see,
> and although they hear they may hear but not understand,
> so they may not repent and be forgiven.”

<a name="4:13">4:13</a> He said to them, “Don’t you understand this parable? Then how will you understand any parable? <a name="4:14">4:14</a> The sower sows the word. <a name="4:15">4:15</a> These are the ones on the path where the word is sown: Whenever they hear, immediately Satan comes and snatches the word that was sown in them. <a name="4:16">4:16</a> These are the ones sown on rocky ground: As soon as they hear the word, they receive it with joy. <a name="4:17">4:17</a> But they have no root in themselves and do not endure. Then, when trouble or persecution comes because of the word, immediately they fall away. <a name="4:18">4:18</a> Others are the ones sown among thorns: They are those who hear the word, <a name="4:19">4:19</a> but worldly cares, the seductiveness of wealth, and the desire for other things come in and choke the word, and it produces nothing. <a name="4:20">4:20</a> But these are the ones sown on good soil: They hear the word and receive it and bear fruit, one thirty times as much, one sixty, and one a hundred.”

## The Parable of the Lamp

<a name="4:21">4:21</a> He also said to them, “A lamp isn’t brought to be put under a basket or under a bed, is it? Isn’t it to be placed on a lamp stand? <a name="4:22">4:22</a> For nothing is hidden except to be revealed, and nothing concealed except to be brought to light. <a name="4:23">4:23</a> If anyone has ears to hear, he had better listen!” <a name="4:24">4:24</a> And he said to them, “Take care about what you hear. The measure you use will be the measure you receive, and more will be added to you. <a name="4:25">4:25</a> For whoever has will be given more, but whoever does not have, even what he has will be taken from him.”

## The Parable of the Growing Seed

<a name="4:26">4:26</a> He also said, “The kingdom of God is like someone who spreads seed on the ground. <a name="4:27">4:27</a> He goes to sleep and gets up, night and day, and the seed sprouts and grows, though he does not know how. <a name="4:28">4:28</a> By itself the soil produces a crop, first the stalk, then the head, then the full grain in the head. <a name="4:29">4:29</a> And when the grain is ripe, he sends in the sickle because the harvest has come.”

## The Parable of the Mustard Seed

<a name="4:30">4:30</a> He also asked, “To what can we compare the kingdom of God, or what parable can we use to present it? <a name="4:31">4:31</a> It is like a mustard seed that when sown in the ground, even though it is the smallest of all the seeds in the ground — <a name="4:32">4:32</a> when it is sown, it grows up, becomes the greatest of all garden plants, and grows large branches so that the wild birds can nest in its shade.”

## The Use of Parables

<a name="4:33">4:33</a> So with many parables like these, he spoke the word to them, as they were able to hear. <a name="4:34">4:34</a> He did not speak to them without a parable. But privately he explained everything to his own disciples.

## Stilling of a Storm

<a name="4:35">4:35</a> On that day, when evening came, Jesus said to his disciples, “Let’s go across to the other side of the lake.” <a name="4:36">4:36</a> So after leaving the crowd, they took him along, just as he was, in the boat, and other boats were with him. <a name="4:37">4:37</a> Now a great windstorm developed and the waves were breaking into the boat, so that the boat was nearly swamped. <a name="4:38">4:38</a> But he was in the stern, sleeping on a cushion. They woke him up and said to him, “Teacher, don’t you care that we are about to die?” <a name="4:39">4:39</a> So he got up and rebuked the wind, and said to the sea, “Be quiet! Calm down!” Then the wind stopped, and it was dead calm. <a name="4:40">4:40</a> And he said to them, “Why are you cowardly? Do you still not have faith?” <a name="4:41">4:41</a> They were overwhelmed by fear and said to one another, “Who then is this? Even the wind and sea obey him!”
