---
title: 07
parent: Mark
other: x
---

## Breaking Human Traditions

<a name="7:1">7:1</a> Now the Pharisees and some of the experts in the law who came from Jerusalem gathered around him. <a name="7:2">7:2</a> And they saw that some of Jesus’ disciples ate their bread with unclean hands, that is, unwashed. <a name="7:3">7:3</a> (For the Pharisees and all the Jews do not eat unless they perform a ritual washing, holding fast to the tradition of the elders. <a name="7:4">7:4</a> And when they come from the marketplace, they do not eat unless they wash. They hold fast to many other traditions: the washing of cups, pots, kettles, and dining couches.) <a name="7:5">7:5</a> The Pharisees and the experts in the law asked him, “Why do your disciples not live according to the tradition of the elders, but eat with unwashed hands?” <a name="7:6">7:6</a> He said to them, “Isaiah prophesied correctly about you hypocrites, as it is written:

> ‘This people honors me with their lips,
> but their heart is far from me.
> <a name="7:7">7:7</a> They worship me in vain,
> teaching as doctrine the commandments of men.’

<a name="7:8">7:8</a> Having no regard for the command of God, you hold fast to human tradition.” <a name="7:9">7:9</a> He also said to them, “You neatly reject the commandment of God in order to set up your tradition. <a name="7:10">7:10</a> For Moses said, ‘Honor your father and your mother,’ and, ‘Whoever insults his father or mother must be put to death.’ <a name="7:11">7:11</a> But you say that if anyone tells his father or mother, ‘Whatever help you would have received from me is corban’ (that is, a gift for God), <a name="7:12">7:12</a> then you no longer permit him to do anything for his father or mother. <a name="7:13">7:13</a> Thus you nullify the word of God by your tradition that you have handed down. And you do many things like this.”

<a name="7:14">7:14</a> Then he called the crowd again and said to them, “Listen to me, everyone, and understand. <a name="7:15">7:15</a> There is nothing outside of a person that can defile him by going into him. Rather, it is what comes out of a person that defiles him.”

<a name="7:17">7:17</a> Now when Jesus had left the crowd and entered the house, his disciples asked him about the parable. <a name="7:18">7:18</a> He said to them, “Are you so foolish? Don’t you understand that whatever goes into a person from outside cannot defile him? <a name="7:19">7:19</a> For it does not enter his heart but his stomach, and then goes out into the sewer.” (This means all foods are clean.) <a name="7:20">7:20</a> He said, “What comes out of a person defiles him. <a name="7:21">7:21</a> For from within, out of the human heart, come evil ideas, sexual immorality, theft, murder, <a name="7:22">7:22</a> adultery, greed, evil, deceit, debauchery, envy, slander, pride, and folly. <a name="7:23">7:23</a> All these evils come from within and defile a person.”

## A Syrophoenician Woman’s Faith

<a name="7:24">7:24</a> After Jesus left there, he went to the region of Tyre. When he went into a house, he did not want anyone to know, but he was not able to escape notice. <a name="7:25">7:25</a> Instead, a woman whose young daughter had an unclean spirit immediately heard about him and came and fell at his feet. <a name="7:26">7:26</a> The woman was a Greek, of Syrophoenician origin. She asked him to cast the demon out of her daughter. <a name="7:27">7:27</a> He said to her, “Let the children be satisfied first, for it is not right to take the children’s bread and to throw it to the dogs.” <a name="7:28">7:28</a> She answered, “Yes, Lord, but even the dogs under the table eat the children’s crumbs.” <a name="7:29">7:29</a> Then he said to her, “Because you said this, you may go. The demon has left your daughter.” <a name="7:30">7:30</a> She went home and found the child lying on the bed, and the demon gone.

## Healing a Deaf Mute

<a name="7:31">7:31</a> Then Jesus went out again from the region of Tyre and came through Sidon to the Sea of Galilee in the region of the Decapolis. <a name="7:32">7:32</a> They brought to him a deaf man who had difficulty speaking, and they asked him to place his hands on him. <a name="7:33">7:33</a> After Jesus took him aside privately, away from the crowd, he put his fingers in the man’s ears, and after spitting, he touched his tongue. <a name="7:34">7:34</a> Then he looked up to heaven and said with a sigh, “Ephphatha” (that is, “Be opened”). <a name="7:35">7:35</a> And immediately the man’s ears were opened, his tongue loosened, and he spoke plainly. <a name="7:36">7:36</a> Jesus ordered them not to tell anything. But as much as he ordered them not to do this, they proclaimed it all the more. <a name="7:37">7:37</a> People were completely astounded and said, “He has done everything well. He even makes the deaf hear and the mute speak.”
