---
title: 25
parent: Isaiah
other: x
---

<a name="25:1">25:1</a> O Lord, you are my God!
I will exalt you in praise, I will extol your fame.
For you have done extraordinary things,
and executed plans made long ago exactly as you decreed.

<a name="25:2">25:2</a> Indeed you have made the city into a heap of rubble,
the fortified town into a heap of ruins;
the fortress of foreigners is no longer a city,
it will never be rebuilt.

<a name="25:3">25:3</a> So a strong nation will extol you;
the towns of powerful nations will fear you.

<a name="25:4">25:4</a> For you are a protector for the poor,
a protector for the needy in their distress,
a shelter from the rainstorm,
a shade from the heat.
Though the breath of tyrants is like a winter rainstorm,

<a name="25:5">25:5</a> like heat in a dry land,
you humble the boasting foreigners.
Just as the shadow of a cloud causes the heat to subside,
so he causes the song of tyrants to cease.

<a name="25:6">25:6</a> The Lord who leads armies will hold a banquet for all the nations on this mountain.
At this banquet there will be plenty of meat and aged wine — 
tender meat and tasty wine.

<a name="25:7">25:7</a> On this mountain he will swallow up
the shroud that is over all the peoples,
the woven covering that is over all the nations;

<a name="25:8">25:8</a> he will swallow up death permanently.
The sovereign Lord will wipe away the tears from every face,
and remove his people’s disgrace from all the earth.
Indeed, the Lord has announced it.

<a name="25:9">25:9</a> At that time they will say,
“Look, here is our God!
We waited for him and he delivered us.
Here is the Lord! We waited for him.
Let’s be happy and celebrate his deliverance!”

<a name="25:10">25:10</a> For the Lord’s power will make this mountain secure.
Moab will be trampled down where it stands,
as a heap of straw is trampled down in a manure pile.

<a name="25:11">25:11</a> Moab will spread out its hands in the middle of it,
just as a swimmer spreads his hands to swim;
the Lord will bring down Moab’s pride as it spreads its hands.

<a name="25:12">25:12</a> The fortified city (along with the very tops of your walls) he will knock down,
he will bring it down, he will throw it down to the dusty ground.