---
title: 38
parent: Isaiah
other: x
---

## The Lord Hears Hezekiah’s Prayer

<a name="38:1">38:1</a> In those days Hezekiah was stricken with a terminal illness. The prophet Isaiah son of Amoz visited him and told him, “This is what the Lord says, ‘Give instructions to your household, for you are about to die; you will not get well.’” <a name="38:2">38:2</a> Hezekiah turned his face to the wall and prayed to the Lord, <a name="38:3">38:3</a> “Please, Lord. Remember how I have served you faithfully and with wholehearted devotion, and how I have carried out your will.” Then Hezekiah wept bitterly.

<a name="38:4">38:4</a> The Lord told Isaiah, <a name="38:5">38:5</a> “Go and tell Hezekiah: ‘This is what the Lord God of your ancestor David says: “I have heard your prayer; I have seen your tears. Look, I will add fifteen years to your life, <a name="38:6">38:6</a> and rescue you and this city from the king of Assyria. I will shield this city.”’” <a name="38:21">38:21</a> Isaiah ordered, “Let them take a fig cake and apply it to the skin blister and he will get well.” <a name="38:22">38:22</a> Hezekiah said, “What is the confirming sign that I will go up to the Lord’s temple?” <a name="38:7">38:7</a> Isaiah replied, “This is your sign from the Lord confirming that the Lord will do what he has said: <a name="38:8">38:8</a> Look, I will make the shadow go back ten steps on the stairs of Ahaz.” And then the shadow went back ten steps.

## Hezekiah’s Song of Thanks

<a name="38:9">38:9</a> This is the prayer of King Hezekiah of Judah when he was sick and then recovered from his illness:


<a name="38:10">38:10</a> “I thought,
‘In the middle of my life I must walk through the gates of Sheol,
I am deprived of the rest of my years.’

<a name="38:11">38:11</a> “I thought,
‘I will no longer see the Lord in the land of the living,
I will no longer look on mankind with the inhabitants of the world.

<a name="38:12">38:12</a> My dwelling place is removed and taken away from me
like a shepherd’s tent.
I rolled up my life like a weaver rolls cloth;
from the loom he cuts me off.
You turn day into night and end my life.

<a name="38:13">38:13</a> I cry out until morning;
like a lion he shatters all my bones;
you turn day into night and end my life.

<a name="38:14">38:14</a> Like a swallow or a thrush I chirp,
I coo like a dove;
my eyes grow tired from looking up to the sky.
O sovereign master, I am oppressed;
help me!

<a name="38:15">38:15</a> What can I say?
He has decreed and acted.
I will walk slowly all my years because I am overcome with grief.

<a name="38:16">38:16</a> O sovereign master, your decrees can give men life;
may years of life be restored to me.
Restore my health and preserve my life.’

<a name="38:17">38:17</a> “Look, the grief I experienced was for my benefit.
You delivered me from the pit of oblivion.
For you removed all my sins from your sight.

<a name="38:18">38:18</a> Indeed Sheol does not give you thanks;
death does not praise you.
Those who descend into the pit do not anticipate your faithfulness.

<a name="38:19">38:19</a> The living one, the living one, he gives you thanks,
as I do today.
A father tells his sons about your faithfulness.
<a name="38:20">38:20</a> The Lord is about to deliver me,
and we will celebrate with music
for the rest of our lives in the Lord’s temple.”