---
title: 64
parent: Isaiah
other: x
---

<a name="64:1">64:1</a> ( <a name="63:19">63:19</a>b) If only you would tear apart the sky and come down!
The mountains would tremble before you!

<a name="64:2">64:2</a> As when fire ignites dry wood,
or fire makes water boil,
let your adversaries know who you are,
and may the nations shake at your presence!

<a name="64:3">64:3</a> When you performed awesome deeds that took us by surprise,
you came down, and the mountains trembled before you.

<a name="64:4">64:4</a> Since ancient times no one has heard or perceived,
no eye has seen any God besides you,
who intervenes for those who wait for him.

<a name="64:5">64:5</a> You assist those who delight in doing what is right,
who observe your commandments.
Look, you were angry because we violated them
continually. How then can we be saved?

<a name="64:6">64:6</a> We are all like one who is unclean,
all our so-called righteous acts are like a menstrual rag in your sight.
We all wither like a leaf;
our sins carry us away like the wind.

<a name="64:7">64:7</a> No one invokes your name,
or makes an effort to take hold of you.
For you have rejected us
and handed us over to our own sins.

<a name="64:8">64:8</a> Yet, Lord, you are our father.
We are the clay, and you are our potter;
we are all the product of your labor.

<a name="64:9">64:9</a> Lord, do not be too angry!
Do not hold our sins against us continually!
Take a good look at your people, at all of us!

<a name="64:10">64:10</a> Your chosen cities have become a desert;
Zion has become a desert,
Jerusalem is a desolate ruin.

<a name="64:11">64:11</a> Our holy temple, our pride and joy,
the place where our ancestors praised you,
has been burned with fire;
all our prized possessions have been destroyed.

<a name="64:12">64:12</a> In light of all this, how can you still hold back, Lord?
How can you be silent and continue to humiliate us?