---
title: 01
parent: Haggai
other: x
---

## The Glory to Come

<a name="2:1">2:1</a> On the twenty-first day of the seventh month, the Lord spoke again through the prophet Haggai: <a name="2:2">2:2</a> “Ask the following question to Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, the high priest Joshua son of Jehozadak, and the remnant of the people: <a name="2:3">2:3</a> ‘Who among you survivors saw the former splendor of this temple? How does it look to you now? Isn’t it nothing by comparison? <a name="2:4">2:4</a> Even so, take heart, Zerubbabel,’ says the Lord. ‘Take heart, Joshua son of Jehozadak, the high priest, and all you citizens of the land,’ says the Lord, ‘and begin to work. For I am with you,’ says the sovereign Lord. <a name="2:5">2:5</a> ‘Do not fear because I made a promise to your ancestors when they left Egypt, and my spirit even now testifies to you.’ <a name="2:6">2:6</a> Moreover, the sovereign Lord says: ‘In just a little while I will once again shake the sky and the earth, the sea and the dry ground. <a name="2:7">2:7</a> I will also shake up all the nations, and they will offer their treasures; then I will fill this temple with glory,’ says the sovereign Lord. <a name="2:8">2:8</a> ‘The silver and gold will be mine,’ says the sovereign Lord. <a name="2:9">2:9</a> ‘The coming splendor of this temple will be greater than that of former times,’ the sovereign Lord declares, ‘and in this place I will give peace.’”

## The Promised Blessing

<a name="2:10">2:10</a> On the twenty-fourth day of the ninth month of Darius’ second year, the Lord spoke again through the prophet Haggai: <a name="2:11">2:11</a> “The sovereign Lord says, ‘Ask the priests about the law. <a name="2:12">2:12</a> If someone carries holy meat in a fold of his garment and that fold touches bread, a boiled dish, wine, oil, or any other food, will that item become holy?’” The priests answered, “It will not.” <a name="2:13">2:13</a> Then Haggai asked, “If a person who is ritually unclean from touching a dead body comes in contact with one of these items, will it become unclean?” The priests answered, “It will be unclean.”

<a name="2:14">2:14</a> Then Haggai responded, “‘The people of this nation are unclean in my sight,’ says the Lord. ‘And so is all their effort; everything they offer is also unclean. <a name="2:15">2:15</a> Now therefore reflect carefully on the recent past, before one stone was laid on another in the Lord’s temple. <a name="2:16">2:16</a> From that time when one came expecting a heap of twenty measures, there were only ten; when one came to the wine vat to draw out fifty measures from it, there were only twenty. <a name="2:17">2:17</a> I struck all the product of your labor with blight, disease, and hail, and yet you brought nothing to me,’ says the Lord. <a name="2:18">2:18</a> ‘Think carefully about the past: from today, the twenty-fourth day of the ninth month, to the day work on the temple of the Lord was resumed, think about it. <a name="2:19">2:19</a> The seed is still in the storehouse, isn’t it? And the vine, fig tree, pomegranate, and olive tree have not produced. Nevertheless, from today on I will bless you.’”

## Zerubbabel the Chosen One

<a name="2:20">2:20</a> Then the Lord spoke again through Haggai on the twenty-fourth day of the month: <a name="2:21">2:21</a> “Tell Zerubbabel governor of Judah: ‘I am ready to shake the sky and the earth. <a name="2:22">2:22</a> I will overthrow royal thrones and shatter the might of earthly kingdoms. I will overthrow chariots and those who ride them, and horses and their riders will fall as people kill one another. <a name="2:23">2:23</a> On that day,’ says the sovereign Lord, ‘I will take you, Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel, my servant,’ says the Lord, ‘and I will make you like a signet ring, for I have chosen you,’ says the sovereign Lord.”
