---
title: 02
parent: Amos
other: x
---

<a name="2:1">2:1</a> This is what the Lord says:

“Because Moab has committed three crimes — 
make that four! — I will not revoke my decree of judgment.
They burned the bones of Edom’s king into lime.
<a name="2:2">2:2</a> So I will set Moab on fire,
and it will consume Kerioth’s fortresses.
Moab will perish in the heat of battle
amid war cries and the blaring of the ram’s horn.
<a name="2:3">2:3</a> I will remove Moab’s leader;
I will kill all Moab’s officials with him.”
The Lord has spoken!

<a name="2:4">2:4</a> This is what the Lord says:

“Because Judah has committed three covenant transgressions — 
make that four! — I will not revoke my decree of judgment.
They rejected the Lord’s law;
they did not obey his commands.
Their false gods,
to which their fathers were loyal,
led them astray.
<a name="2:5">2:5</a> So I will set Judah on fire,
and it will consume Jerusalem’s fortresses.”

## God Will Judge Israel

<a name="2:6">2:6</a> This is what the Lord says:

“Because Israel has committed three covenant transgressions — 
make that four! — I will not revoke my decree of judgment.
They sold the innocent for silver,
the needy for a pair of sandals.
<a name="2:7">2:7</a> They trample on the dirt-covered heads of the poor;
they push the destitute away.
A man and his father go to the same girl;
in this way they show disrespect for my moral purity.
<a name="2:8">2:8</a> They stretch out on clothing seized as collateral;
they do this right beside every altar!
They drink wine bought with the fines they have levied;
they do this right in the temple of their God!
<a name="2:9">2:9</a> For Israel’s sake I destroyed the Amorites.
They were as tall as cedars
and as strong as oaks,
but I destroyed the fruit on their branches
and their roots in the ground.
<a name="2:10">2:10</a> I brought you up from the land of Egypt;
I led you through the wilderness for forty years
so you could take the Amorites’ land as your own.
<a name="2:11">2:11</a> I made some of your sons prophets
and some of your young men religious devotees.
Is this not true, you Israelites?”
The Lord is speaking!
<a name="2:12">2:12</a> “But you made the religious devotees drink wine;
you commanded the prophets, ‘Do not prophesy!’
<a name="2:13">2:13</a> Look! I will press you down,
like a cart loaded down with grain presses down.
<a name="2:14">2:14</a> Fast runners will find no place to hide;
strong men will have no strength left;
warriors will not be able to save their lives.
<a name="2:15">2:15</a> Archers will not hold their ground;
fast runners will not save their lives,
nor will those who ride horses.
<a name="2:16">2:16</a> Brave-hearted warriors will run away naked in that day.”
The Lord is speaking!
