---
title: 03
parent: Amos
other: x
---

## Every Effect has its Cause

<a name="3:1">3:1</a> Listen, you Israelites, to this message which the Lord is proclaiming against you. This message is for the entire clan I brought up from the land of Egypt: 

<a name="3:2">3:2</a> “I have chosen you alone from all the clans of the earth. Therefore I will punish you for all your sins.”
<a name="3:3">3:3</a> Do two walk together without having met?
<a name="3:4">3:4</a> Does a lion roar in the woods if he has not cornered his prey?
Does a young lion bellow from his den if he has not caught something?
<a name="3:5">3:5</a> Does a bird swoop down into a trap on the ground if there is no bait?
Does a trap spring up from the ground unless it has surely caught something?
<a name="3:6">3:6</a> If an alarm sounds in a city, do people not fear?
If disaster overtakes a city, is the Lord not responsible?
<a name="3:7">3:7</a> Certainly the sovereign Lord does nothing without first revealing his plan to his servants the prophets.
<a name="3:8">3:8</a> A lion has roared! Who is not afraid?
The sovereign Lord, has spoken! Who can refuse to prophesy?

## Samaria Will Fall

<a name="3:9">3:9</a> Make this announcement in the fortresses of Ashdod
and in the fortresses in the land of Egypt.
Say this:
“Gather on the hills around Samaria!
Observe the many acts of violence taking place within the city,
the oppressive deeds occurring in it.”

<a name="3:10">3:10</a> “They do not know how to do what is right.” (The Lord is speaking.)
“They store up the spoils of destructive violence in their fortresses.
<a name="3:11">3:11</a> Therefore,” says the sovereign Lord, “an enemy will encircle the land.
It will take away your power;
your fortresses will be looted.”
<a name="3:12">3:12</a> This is what the Lord says:
“Just as a shepherd salvages from the lion’s mouth a couple of leg bones or a piece of an ear,
so the Israelites who live in Samaria will be salvaged.
They will be left with just a corner of a bed,
and a part of a couch.”

<a name="3:13">3:13</a> Listen and warn the family of Jacob!
The sovereign Lord, the God who leads armies, is speaking!
<a name="3:14">3:14</a> “Certainly when I punish Israel for their covenant transgressions,
I will destroy Bethel’s altars.
The horns of the altar will be cut off and fall to the ground.
<a name="3:15">3:15</a> I will destroy both the winter and summer houses.
The houses filled with ivory will be ruined,
the great houses will be swept away.”
The Lord is speaking!
