---
title: 07
parent: Amos
other: x
---

## Symbolic Visions of Judgment

<a name="7:1">7:1</a> The sovereign Lord showed me this: I saw him making locusts just as the crops planted late were beginning to sprout. (The crops planted late sprout after the royal harvest.) 
<a name="7:2">7:2</a> When they had completely consumed the earth’s vegetation, I said, 

“Sovereign Lord, forgive Israel! How can Jacob survive? He is too weak!”

<a name="7:3">7:3</a> The Lord decided not to do this. “It will not happen,” the Lord said.

<a name="7:4">7:4</a> The sovereign Lord showed me this: I saw the sovereign Lord summoning a shower of fire. It consumed the great deep and devoured the fields. 
<a name="7:5">7:5</a> I said, 

“Sovereign Lord, stop! How can Jacob survive? He is too weak!”

<a name="7:6">7:6</a> The Lord decided not to do this. The sovereign Lord said, “This will not happen either.”

<a name="7:7">7:7</a> He showed me this: I saw the Sovereign One standing by a tin wall holding tin in his hand. 
<a name="7:8">7:8</a> The Lord said to me, “What do you see, Amos?” I said, “Tin.” The Sovereign One then said, 
 
“Look, I am about to place tin among my people Israel. I will no longer overlook their sin.
<a name="7:9">7:9</a> Isaac’s worship centers will become desolate;
Israel’s holy places will be in ruins.
I will attack Jeroboam’s dynasty with the sword.”

## Amos Confronts a Priest

<a name="7:10">7:10</a> Amaziah the priest of Bethel sent this message to King Jeroboam of Israel: “Amos is conspiring against you in the very heart of the kingdom of Israel! The land cannot endure all his prophecies. 
<a name="7:11">7:11</a> As a matter of fact, Amos is saying this: ‘Jeroboam will die by the sword and Israel will certainly be carried into exile away from its land.’”

<a name="7:12">7:12</a> Amaziah then said to Amos, “Leave, you visionary! Run away to the land of Judah! Earn money and prophesy there! 
<a name="7:13">7:13</a> Don’t prophesy at Bethel any longer, for a royal temple and palace are here!”

<a name="7:14">7:14</a> Amos replied to Amaziah, “I was not a prophet by profession. No, I was a herdsman who also took care of sycamore fig trees. 
<a name="7:15">7:15</a> Then the Lord took me from tending flocks and gave me this commission, ‘Go! Prophesy to my people Israel!’ 
<a name="7:16">7:16</a> So now listen to the Lord’s message! You say, ‘Don’t prophesy against Israel! Don’t preach against the family of Isaac!’

<a name="7:17">7:17</a> “Therefore this is what the Lord says:

‘Your wife will become a prostitute in the streets
and your sons and daughters will die violently.
Your land will be given to others
and you will die in a foreign land.
Israel will certainly be carried into exile away from its land.’”
