---
title: 01
parent: 2 Timothy
other: x
---
<a name="1:1">1:1</a> From Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by God’s will, to further the promise of life in Christ Jesus, <a name="1:2">1:2</a> to Timothy, my dear child. Grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord!

## Thanksgiving and Charge to Timothy

<a name="1:3">1:3</a> I am thankful to God, whom I have served with a clear conscience as my ancestors did, when I remember you in my prayers as I do constantly night and day. <a name="1:4">1:4</a> As I remember your tears, I long to see you, so that I may be filled with joy. <a name="1:5">1:5</a> I recall your sincere faith that was alive first in your grandmother Lois and in your mother Eunice, and I am sure is in you.

<a name="1:6">1:6</a> Because of this I remind you to rekindle God’s gift that you possess through the laying on of my hands. <a name="1:7">1:7</a> For God did not give us a Spirit of fear but of power and love and self-control. <a name="1:8">1:8</a> So do not be ashamed of the testimony about our Lord or of me, a prisoner for his sake, but by God’s power accept your share of suffering for the gospel. <a name="1:9">1:9</a> He is the one who saved us and called us with a holy calling, not based on our works but on his own purpose and grace, granted to us in Christ Jesus before time began, <a name="1:10">1:10</a> but now made visible through the appearing of our Savior Christ Jesus. He has broken the power of death and brought life and immortality to light through the gospel! <a name="1:11">1:11</a> For this gospel I was appointed a preacher and apostle and teacher. <a name="1:12">1:12</a> Because of this, in fact, I suffer as I do. But I am not ashamed, because I know the one in whom my faith is set and I am convinced that he is able to protect what has been entrusted to me until that day. <a name="1:13">1:13</a> Hold to the standard of sound words that you heard from me and do so with the faith and love that are in Christ Jesus. <a name="1:14">1:14</a> Protect that good thing entrusted to you, through the Holy Spirit who lives within us.

<a name="1:15">1:15</a> You know that everyone in the province of Asia deserted me, including Phygelus and Hermogenes. <a name="1:16">1:16</a> May the Lord grant mercy to the family of Onesiphorus, because he often refreshed me and was not ashamed of my imprisonment. <a name="1:17">1:17</a> But when he arrived in Rome, he eagerly searched for me and found me. <a name="1:18">1:18</a> May the Lord grant him to find mercy from the Lord on that day! And you know very well all the ways he served me in Ephesus.
