---
title: 03
parent: 2 Timothy
other: x
---
## Ministry in the Last Days

<a name="3:1">3:1</a> But understand this, that in the last days difficult times will come. <a name="3:2">3:2</a> For people will be lovers of themselves, lovers of money, boastful, arrogant, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, ungrateful, unholy, <a name="3:3">3:3</a> unloving, irreconcilable, slanderers, without self-control, savage, opposed to what is good, <a name="3:4">3:4</a> treacherous, reckless, conceited, loving pleasure rather than loving God. <a name="3:5">3:5</a> They will maintain the outward appearance of religion but will have repudiated its power. So avoid people like these. <a name="3:6">3:6</a> For some of these insinuate themselves into households and captivate weak women who are overwhelmed with sins and led along by various passions. <a name="3:7">3:7</a> Such women are always seeking instruction, yet never able to arrive at a knowledge of the truth. <a name="3:8">3:8</a> And just as Jannes and Jambres opposed Moses, so these people — who have warped minds and are disqualified in the faith — also oppose the truth. <a name="3:9">3:9</a> But they will not go much further, for their foolishness will be obvious to everyone, just like it was with Jannes and Jambres.

## Continue in What You Have Learned

<a name="3:10">3:10</a> You, however, have followed my teaching, my way of life, my purpose, my faith, my patience, my love, my endurance, <a name="3:11">3:11</a> as well as the persecutions and sufferings that happened to me in Antioch, in Iconium, and in Lystra. I endured these persecutions and the Lord delivered me from them all. <a name="3:12">3:12</a> Now in fact all who want to live godly lives in Christ Jesus will be persecuted. <a name="3:13">3:13</a> But evil people and charlatans will go from bad to worse, deceiving others and being deceived themselves. <a name="3:14">3:14</a> You, however, must continue in the things you have learned and are confident about. You know who taught you <a name="3:15">3:15</a> and how from infancy you have known the holy writings, which are able to give you wisdom for salvation through faith in Christ Jesus. <a name="3:16">3:16</a> Every scripture is inspired by God and useful for teaching, for reproof, for correction, and for training in righteousness, <a name="3:17">3:17</a> that the person dedicated to God may be capable and equipped for every good work.
