---
title: 04
parent: 2 Timothy
other: x
---
## Charge to Timothy Repeated

<a name="4:1">4:1</a> I solemnly charge you before God and Christ Jesus, who is going to judge the living and the dead, and by his appearing and his kingdom: <a name="4:2">4:2</a> Preach the message, be ready whether it is convenient or not, reprove, rebuke, exhort with complete patience and instruction. <a name="4:3">4:3</a> For there will be a time when people will not tolerate sound teaching. Instead, following their own desires, they will accumulate teachers for themselves, because they have an insatiable curiosity to hear new things. <a name="4:4">4:4</a> And they will turn away from hearing the truth, but on the other hand they will turn aside to myths. <a name="4:5">4:5</a> You, however, be self-controlled in all things, endure hardship, do an evangelist’s work, fulfill your ministry. <a name="4:6">4:6</a> For I am already being poured out as an offering, and the time for me to depart is at hand. <a name="4:7">4:7</a> I have competed well; I have finished the race; I have kept the faith! <a name="4:8">4:8</a> Finally the crown of righteousness is reserved for me. The Lord, the righteous Judge, will award it to me in that day — and not to me only, but also to all who have set their affection on his appearing.

## Travel Plans and Concluding Greetings

<a name="4:9">4:9</a> Make every effort to come to me soon. <a name="4:10">4:10</a> For Demas deserted me, since he loved the present age, and he went to Thessalonica. Crescens went to Galatia and Titus to Dalmatia. <a name="4:11">4:11</a> Only Luke is with me. Get Mark and bring him with you, because he is a great help to me in ministry. <a name="4:12">4:12</a> Now I have sent Tychicus to Ephesus. <a name="4:13">4:13</a> When you come, bring with you the cloak I left in Troas with Carpas and the scrolls, especially the parchments. <a name="4:14">4:14</a> Alexander the coppersmith did me a great deal of harm. The Lord will repay him in keeping with his deeds. <a name="4:15">4:15</a> You be on guard against him too, because he vehemently opposed our words. <a name="4:16">4:16</a> At my first defense no one appeared in my support; instead they all deserted me — may they not be held accountable for it. <a name="4:17">4:17</a> But the Lord stood by me and strengthened me, so that through me the message would be fully proclaimed for all the Gentiles to hear. And so I was delivered from the lion’s mouth! <a name="4:18">4:18</a> The Lord will deliver me from every evil deed and will bring me safely into his heavenly kingdom. To him be glory for ever and ever! Amen. <a name="4:19">4:19</a> Greetings to Prisca and Aquila and the family of Onesiphorus. <a name="4:20">4:20</a> Erastus stayed in Corinth. Trophimus I left ill in Miletus. <a name="4:21">4:21</a> Make every effort to come before winter. Greetings to you from Eubulus, Pudens, Linus, Claudia, and all the brothers and sisters. <a name="4:22">4:22</a> The Lord be with your spirit. Grace be with you.
