---
title: 08
parent: Matthew
other: x
---

## Cleansing a Leper

<a name="8:1">8:1</a> After he came down from the mountain, large crowds followed him. <a name="8:2">8:2</a> And a leper approached, and bowed low before him, saying, “Lord, if you are willing, you can make me clean.” <a name="8:3">8:3</a> He stretched out his hand and touched him saying, “I am willing. Be clean!” Immediately his leprosy was cleansed. <a name="8:4">8:4</a> Then Jesus said to him, “See that you do not speak to anyone, but go, show yourself to a priest, and bring the offering that Moses commanded, as a testimony to them.”

## Healing the Centurion’s Servant

<a name="8:5">8:5</a> When he entered Capernaum, a centurion came to him asking for help: <a name="8:6">8:6</a> “Lord, my servant is lying at home paralyzed, in terrible anguish.” <a name="8:7">8:7</a> Jesus said to him, “I will come and heal him.” <a name="8:8">8:8</a> But the centurion replied, “Lord, I am not worthy to have you come under my roof. Instead, just say the word and my servant will be healed. <a name="8:9">8:9</a> For I too am a man under authority, with soldiers under me. I say to this one, ‘Go’ and he goes, and to another ‘Come’ and he comes, and to my slave ‘Do this’ and he does it.” <a name="8:10">8:10</a> When Jesus heard this he was amazed and said to those who followed him, “I tell you the truth, I have not found such faith in anyone in Israel! <a name="8:11">8:11</a> I tell you, many will come from the east and west to share the banquet with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven, <a name="8:12">8:12</a> but the sons of the kingdom will be thrown out into the outer darkness, where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.” <a name="8:13">8:13</a> Then Jesus said to the centurion, “Go; just as you believed, it will be done for you.” And the servant was healed at that hour.

## Healings at Peter’s House

<a name="8:14">8:14</a> Now when Jesus entered Peter’s house, he saw his mother-in-law lying down, sick with a fever. <a name="8:15">8:15</a> He touched her hand, and the fever left her. Then she got up and began to serve them. <a name="8:16">8:16</a> When it was evening, many demon-possessed people were brought to him. He drove out the spirits with a word, and healed all who were sick. <a name="8:17">8:17</a> In this way what was spoken by Isaiah the prophet was fulfilled:

> “He took our weaknesses, and carried our diseases.”

## Challenging Professed Followers

<a name="8:18">8:18</a> Now when Jesus saw a large crowd around him, he gave orders to go to the other side of the lake. <a name="8:19">8:19</a> Then an expert in the law came to him and said, “Teacher, I will follow you wherever you go.” <a name="8:20">8:20</a> Jesus said to him, “Foxes have dens, and the birds in the sky have nests, but the Son of Man has no place to lay his head.” <a name="8:21">8:21</a> Another of the disciples said to him, “Lord, let me first go and bury my father.” <a name="8:22">8:22</a> But Jesus said to him, “Follow me, and let the dead bury their own dead.”

## Stilling of a Storm

<a name="8:23">8:23</a> As he got into the boat, his disciples followed him. <a name="8:24">8:24</a> And a great storm developed on the sea so that the waves began to swamp the boat. But he was asleep. <a name="8:25">8:25</a> So they came and woke him up saying, “Lord, save us! We are about to die!” <a name="8:26">8:26</a> But he said to them, “Why are you cowardly, you people of little faith?” Then he got up and rebuked the winds and the sea, and it was dead calm. <a name="8:27">8:27</a> And the men were amazed and said, “What sort of person is this? Even the winds and the sea obey him!”

## Healing the Gadarene Demoniacs

<a name="8:28">8:28</a> When he came to the other side, to the region of the Gadarenes, two demon-possessed men coming from the tombs met him. They were extremely violent, so that no one was able to pass by that way. <a name="8:29">8:29</a> They cried out, “Son of God, leave us alone! Have you come here to torment us before the time?” <a name="8:30">8:30</a> A large herd of pigs was feeding some distance from them. <a name="8:31">8:31</a> Then the demons begged him, “If you drive us out, send us into the herd of pigs.” <a name="8:32">8:32</a> And he said, “Go!” So they came out and went into the pigs, and the herd rushed down the steep slope into the lake and drowned in the water. <a name="8:33">8:33</a> The herdsmen ran off, went into the town, and told everything that had happened to the demon-possessed men. <a name="8:34">8:34</a> Then the entire town came out to meet Jesus. And when they saw him, they begged him to leave their region.