---
title: 16
parent: Matthew
other: x
---

## The Demand for a Sign

<a name="16:1">16:1</a> Now when the Pharisees and Sadducees came to test Jesus, they asked him to show them a sign from heaven. <a name="16:2">16:2</a> He said, “When evening comes you say, ‘It will be fair weather, because the sky is red,’ <a name="16:3">16:3</a> and in the morning, ‘It will be stormy today, because the sky is red and darkening.’ You know how to judge correctly the appearance of the sky, but you cannot evaluate the signs of the times. <a name="16:4">16:4</a> A wicked and adulterous generation asks for a sign, but no sign will be given to it except the sign of Jonah.” Then he left them and went away.

## The Yeast of the Pharisees and Sadducees

<a name="16:5">16:5</a> When the disciples went to the other side, they forgot to take bread. <a name="16:6">16:6</a> “Watch out,” Jesus said to them, “beware of the yeast of the Pharisees and Sadducees.” <a name="16:7">16:7</a> So they began to discuss this among themselves, saying, “It is because we brought no bread.” <a name="16:8">16:8</a> When Jesus learned of this, he said, “You who have such little faith! Why are you arguing among yourselves about having no bread? <a name="16:9">16:9</a> Do you still not understand? Don’t you remember the five loaves for the five thousand, and how many baskets you took up? <a name="16:10">16:10</a> Or the seven loaves for the four thousand and how many baskets you took up? <a name="16:11">16:11</a> How could you not understand that I was not speaking to you about bread? But beware of the yeast of the Pharisees and Sadducees!” <a name="16:12">16:12</a> Then they understood that he had not told them to be on guard against the yeast in bread, but against the teaching of the Pharisees and Sadducees.

## Peter’s Confession

<a name="16:13">16:13</a> When Jesus came to the area of Caesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, “Who do people say that the Son of Man is?” <a name="16:14">16:14</a> They answered, “Some say John the Baptist, others Elijah, and others Jeremiah or one of the prophets.” <a name="16:15">16:15</a> He said to them, “But who do you say that I am?” <a name="16:16">16:16</a> Simon Peter answered, “You are the Christ, the Son of the living God.” <a name="16:17">16:17</a> And Jesus answered him, “You are blessed, Simon son of Jonah, because flesh and blood did not reveal this to you, but my Father in heaven! <a name="16:18">16:18</a> And I tell you that you are Peter, and on this rock I will build my church, and the gates of Hades will not overpower it. <a name="16:19">16:19</a> I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven. Whatever you bind on earth will have been bound in heaven, and whatever you release on earth will have been released in heaven.” <a name="16:20">16:20</a> Then he instructed his disciples not to tell anyone that he was the Christ.

## First Prediction of Jesus’ Death and Resurrection

<a name="16:21">16:21</a> From that time on Jesus began to show his disciples that he must go to Jerusalem and suffer many things at the hands of the elders, chief priests, and experts in the law, and be killed, and on the third day be raised. <a name="16:22">16:22</a> So Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him: “God forbid, Lord! This must not happen to you!” <a name="16:23">16:23</a> But he turned and said to Peter, “Get behind me, Satan! You are a stumbling block to me, because you are not setting your mind on God’s interests, but on man’s.” <a name="16:24">16:24</a> Then Jesus said to his disciples, “If anyone wants to become my follower, he must deny himself, take up his cross, and follow me. <a name="16:25">16:25</a> For whoever wants to save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will find it. <a name="16:26">16:26</a> For what does it benefit a person if he gains the whole world but forfeits his life? Or what can a person give in exchange for his life? <a name="16:27">16:27</a> For the Son of Man will come with his angels in the glory of his Father, and then he will reward each person according to what he has done. <a name="16:28">16:28</a> I tell you the truth, there are some standing here who will not experience death before they see the Son of Man coming in his kingdom.”