---
title: 01
parent: James
other: x
---

<a name="1:1">1:1</a> From James, a slave of God and the Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes dispersed abroad. Greetings!

## Joy in Trials

<a name="1:2">1:2</a> My brothers and sisters, consider it nothing but joy when you fall into all sorts of trials, <a name="1:3">1:3</a> because you know that the testing of your faith produces endurance. <a name="1:4">1:4</a> And let endurance have its perfect effect, so that you will be perfect and complete, not deficient in anything. <a name="1:5">1:5</a> But if anyone is deficient in wisdom, he should ask God, who gives to all generously and without reprimand, and it will be given to him. <a name="1:6">1:6</a> But he must ask in faith without doubting, for the one who doubts is like a wave of the sea, blown and tossed around by the wind. <a name="1:7">1:7</a> For that person must not suppose that he will receive anything from the Lord, <a name="1:8">1:8</a> since he is a double-minded individual, unstable in all his ways.

<a name="1:9">1:9</a> Now the believer of humble means should take pride in his high position. <a name="1:10">1:10</a> But the rich person’s pride should be in his humiliation, because he will pass away like a wildflower in the meadow. <a name="1:11">1:11</a> For the sun rises with its heat and dries up the meadow; the petal of the flower falls off and its beauty is lost forever. So also the rich person in the midst of his pursuits will wither away. <a name="1:12">1:12</a> Happy is the one who endures testing, because when he has proven to be genuine, he will receive the crown of life that God promised to those who love him. <a name="1:13">1:13</a> Let no one say when he is tempted, “I am tempted by God,” for God cannot be tempted by evil, and he himself tempts no one. <a name="1:14">1:14</a> But each one is tempted when he is lured and enticed by his own desires. <a name="1:15">1:15</a> Then when desire conceives, it gives birth to sin, and when sin is full grown, it gives birth to death. <a name="1:16">1:16</a> Do not be led astray, my dear brothers and sisters. <a name="1:17">1:17</a> All generous giving and every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights, with whom there is no variation or the slightest hint of change. <a name="1:18">1:18</a> By his sovereign plan he gave us birth through the message of truth, that we would be a kind of firstfruits of all he created.

## Living Out the Message

<a name="1:19">1:19</a> Understand this, my dear brothers and sisters! Let every person be quick to listen, slow to speak, slow to anger. <a name="1:20">1:20</a> For human anger does not accomplish God’s righteousness. <a name="1:21">1:21</a> So put away all filth and evil excess and humbly welcome the message implanted within you, which is able to save your souls. <a name="1:22">1:22</a> But be sure you live out the message and do not merely listen to it and so deceive yourselves. <a name="1:23">1:23</a> For if someone merely listens to the message and does not live it out, he is like someone who gazes at his own face in a mirror. <a name="1:24">1:24</a> For he gazes at himself and then goes out and immediately forgets what sort of person he was. <a name="1:25">1:25</a> But the one who peers into the perfect law of liberty and fixes his attention there, and does not become a forgetful listener but one who lives it out — he will be blessed in what he does. <a name="1:26">1:26</a> If someone thinks he is religious yet does not bridle his tongue, and so deceives his heart, his religion is futile. <a name="1:27">1:27</a> Pure and undefiled religion before God the Father is this: to care for orphans and widows in their misfortune and to keep oneself unstained by the world.
