---
title: 04
parent: James
other: x
---

## Passions and Pride

<a name="4:1">4:1</a> Where do the conflicts and where do the quarrels among you come from? Is it not from this, from your passions that battle inside you? <a name="4:2">4:2</a> You desire and you do not have; you murder and envy and you cannot obtain; you quarrel and fight. You do not have because you do not ask; <a name="4:3">4:3</a> you ask and do not receive because you ask wrongly, so you can spend it on your passions.

<a name="4:4">4:4</a> Adulterers, do you not know that friendship with the world means hostility toward God? So whoever decides to be the world’s friend makes himself God’s enemy. <a name="4:5">4:5</a> Or do you think the scripture means nothing when it says, “The spirit that God caused to live within us has an envious yearning”? <a name="4:6">4:6</a> But he gives greater grace. Therefore it says, “God opposes the proud, but he gives grace to the humble.” <a name="4:7">4:7</a> So submit to God. But resist the devil and he will flee from you. <a name="4:8">4:8</a> Draw near to God and he will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners, and make your hearts pure, you double-minded. <a name="4:9">4:9</a> Grieve, mourn, and weep. Turn your laughter into mourning and your joy into despair. <a name="4:10">4:10</a> Humble yourselves before the Lord and he will exalt you.

<a name="4:11">4:11</a> Do not speak against one another, brothers and sisters. He who speaks against a fellow believer or judges a fellow believer speaks against the law and judges the law. But if you judge the law, you are not a doer of the law but its judge. <a name="4:12">4:12</a> But there is only one who is lawgiver and judge — the one who is able to save and destroy. On the other hand, who are you to judge your neighbor?

<a name="4:13">4:13</a> Come now, you who say, “Today or tomorrow we will go into this or that town and spend a year there and do business and make a profit.” <a name="4:14">4:14</a> You do not know about tomorrow. What is your life like? For you are a puff of smoke that appears for a short time and then vanishes. <a name="4:15">4:15</a> You ought to say instead, “If the Lord is willing, then we will live and do this or that.” <a name="4:16">4:16</a> But as it is, you boast in your arrogance. All such boasting is evil. <a name="4:17">4:17</a> So whoever knows what is good to do and does not do it is guilty of sin.
