---
title: 04
parent: Esther
other: x
---

## Esther Decides to Risk Everything in order to Help Her People

<a name="4:1">4:1</a> Now when Mordecai became aware of all that had been done, he tore his garments and put on sackcloth and ashes. He went out into the city, crying out in a loud and bitter voice. <a name="4:2">4:2</a> But he went no further than the king’s gate, for no one was permitted to enter the king’s gate clothed in sackcloth. <a name="4:3">4:3</a> Throughout each and every province where the king’s edict and law were announced there was considerable mourning among the Jews, along with fasting, weeping, and sorrow. Sackcloth and ashes were characteristic of many. <a name="4:4">4:4</a> When Esther’s female attendants and her eunuchs came and informed her about Mordecai’s behavior, the queen was overcome with anguish. Although she sent garments for Mordecai to put on so that he could remove his sackcloth, he would not accept them. <a name="4:5">4:5</a> So Esther called for Hathach, one of the king’s eunuchs who had been placed at her service, and instructed him to find out the cause and reason for Mordecai’s behavior. <a name="4:6">4:6</a> So Hathach went to Mordecai at the plaza of the city in front of the king’s gate. <a name="4:7">4:7</a> Then Mordecai related to him everything that had happened to him, even the specific amount of money that Haman had offered to pay to the king’s treasuries for the Jews to be destroyed. <a name="4:8">4:8</a> He also gave him a written copy of the law that had been disseminated in Susa for their destruction so that he could show it to Esther and talk to her about it. He also gave instructions that she should go to the king to implore him and petition him in behalf of her people. <a name="4:9">4:9</a> So Hathach returned and related Mordecai’s instructions to Esther.

<a name="4:10">4:10</a> Then Esther replied to Hathach with instructions for Mordecai: <a name="4:11">4:11</a> “All the servants of the king and the people of the king’s provinces know that there is only one law applicable to any man or woman who comes uninvited to the king in the inner court — that person will be put to death, unless the king extends to him the gold scepter, permitting him to be spared. Now I have not been invited to come to the king for some thirty days!”

<a name="4:12">4:12</a> When Esther’s reply was conveyed to Mordecai, <a name="4:13">4:13</a> he said to take back this answer to Esther: <a name="4:14">4:14</a> “Don’t imagine that because you are part of the king’s household you will be the one Jew who will escape. If you keep quiet at this time, liberation and protection for the Jews will appear from another source, while you and your father’s household perish. It may very well be that you have achieved royal status for such a time as this!”

<a name="4:15">4:15</a> Then Esther sent this reply to Mordecai: <a name="4:16">4:16</a> “Go, assemble all the Jews who are found in Susa and fast in my behalf. Don’t eat and don’t drink for three days, night or day. My female attendants and I will also fast in the same way. Afterward I will go to the king, even though it violates the law. If I perish, I perish!”

<a name="4:17">4:17</a> So Mordecai set out to do everything that Esther had instructed him.
