---
title: 01
parent: Philippians
other: x
---
<a name="1:1">1:1</a> From Paul and Timothy, slaves of Christ Jesus, to all the saints in Christ Jesus who are in Philippi, with the overseers and deacons. <a name="1:2">1:2</a> Grace and peace to you from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ!

## Prayer for the Church

<a name="1:3">1:3</a> I thank my God every time I remember you. <a name="1:4">1:4</a> I always pray with joy in my every prayer for you all <a name="1:5">1:5</a> because of your participation in the gospel from the first day until now. <a name="1:6">1:6</a> For I am sure of this very thing, that the one who began a good work in you will perfect it until the day of Christ Jesus. <a name="1:7">1:7</a> For it is right for me to think this about all of you, because I have you in my heart, since both in my imprisonment and in the defense and confirmation of the gospel all of you became partners in God’s grace together with me. <a name="1:8">1:8</a> For God is my witness that I long for all of you with the affection of Christ Jesus. <a name="1:9">1:9</a> And I pray this, that your love may abound even more and more in knowledge and every kind of insight <a name="1:10">1:10</a> so that you can decide what is best, and thus be sincere and blameless for the day of Christ, <a name="1:11">1:11</a> filled with the fruit of righteousness that comes through Jesus Christ to the glory and praise of God.

## Ministry as a Prisoner

<a name="1:12">1:12</a> I want you to know, brothers and sisters, that my situation has actually turned out to advance the gospel: <a name="1:13">1:13</a> The whole imperial guard and everyone else knows that I am in prison for the sake of Christ, <a name="1:14">1:14</a> and most of the brothers and sisters, having confidence in the Lord because of my imprisonment, now more than ever dare to speak the word fearlessly.

<a name="1:15">1:15</a> Some, to be sure, are preaching Christ from envy and rivalry, but others from goodwill. <a name="1:16">1:16</a> The latter do so from love because they know that I am placed here for the defense of the gospel. <a name="1:17">1:17</a> The former proclaim Christ from selfish ambition, not sincerely, because they think they can cause trouble for me in my imprisonment. <a name="1:18">1:18</a> What is the result? Only that in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is being proclaimed, and in this I rejoice.

Yes, and I will continue to rejoice, <a name="1:19">1:19</a> for I know that this will turn out for my deliverance through your prayers and the help of the Spirit of Jesus Christ. <a name="1:20">1:20</a> My confident hope is that I will in no way be ashamed but that with complete boldness, even now as always, Christ will be exalted in my body, whether I live or die. <a name="1:21">1:21</a> For to me, living is Christ and dying is gain. <a name="1:22">1:22</a> Now if I am to go on living in the body, this will mean productive work for me, yet I don’t know which I prefer: <a name="1:23">1:23</a> I feel torn between the two, because I have a desire to depart and be with Christ, which is better by far, <a name="1:24">1:24</a> but it is more vital for your sake that I remain in the body. <a name="1:25">1:25</a> And since I am sure of this, I know that I will remain and continue with all of you for the sake of your progress and joy in the faith, <a name="1:26">1:26</a> so that what you can be proud of may increase because of me in Christ Jesus, when I come back to you.

<a name="1:27">1:27</a> Only conduct yourselves in a manner worthy of the gospel of Christ so that — whether I come and see you or whether I remain absent — I should hear that you are standing firm in one spirit, with one mind, by contending side by side for the faith of the gospel, <a name="1:28">1:28</a> and by not being intimidated in any way by your opponents. This is a sign of their destruction, but of your salvation — a sign which is from God. <a name="1:29">1:29</a> For it has been granted to you not only to believe in Christ but also to suffer for him, <a name="1:30">1:30</a> since you are encountering the same conflict that you saw me face and now hear that I am facing.
