---
title: 04
parent: Proverbs
other: x
---

## Admonition to Follow Righteousness and Avoid Wickedness


<a name="4:1">4:1</a> Listen, children, to a father’s instruction, and pay attention so that you may gain discernment.

<a name="4:2">4:2</a> Because I give you good instruction, do not forsake my teaching.

<a name="4:3">4:3</a> When I was a son to my father, a tender only child before my mother,

<a name="4:4">4:4</a> he taught me, and he said to me: “Let your heart lay hold of my words; keep my commands so that you will live.

<a name="4:5">4:5</a> Acquire wisdom, acquire understanding; do not forget and do not turn aside from the words I speak.

<a name="4:6">4:6</a> Do not forsake her, and she will protect you; love her, and she will guard you.

<a name="4:7">4:7</a> Wisdom is supreme — so acquire wisdom, and whatever you acquire, acquire understanding!

<a name="4:8">4:8</a> Esteem her highly and she will exalt you; she will honor you if you embrace her.

<a name="4:9">4:9</a> She will place a fair garland on your head; she will bestow a beautiful crown on you.”

<a name="4:10">4:10</a> Listen, my child, and accept my words, so that the years of your life will be many.

<a name="4:11">4:11</a> I will guide you in the way of wisdom and I will lead you in upright paths.

<a name="4:12">4:12</a> When you walk, your steps will not be hampered, and when you run, you will not stumble.

<a name="4:13">4:13</a> Hold on to instruction, do not let it go; protect it, because it is your life.

<a name="4:14">4:14</a> Do not enter the path of the wicked or walk in the way of those who are evil.

<a name="4:15">4:15</a> Avoid it, do not go on it; turn away from it, and go on.

<a name="4:16">4:16</a> For they cannot sleep unless they cause harm; they are robbed of sleep until they make someone fall.

<a name="4:17">4:17</a> For they eat bread gained from wickedness and drink wine obtained from violence.

<a name="4:18">4:18</a> But the path of the righteous is like the bright morning light, growing brighter and brighter until full day.

<a name="4:19">4:19</a> The way of the wicked is like gloomy darkness; they do not know what causes them to stumble.

<a name="4:20">4:20</a> My child, pay attention to my words; listen attentively to my sayings.

<a name="4:21">4:21</a> Do not let them depart from your sight, guard them within your heart;

<a name="4:22">4:22</a> for they are life to those who find them and healing to one’s entire body.

<a name="4:23">4:23</a> Guard your heart with all vigilance, for from it are the sources of life.

<a name="4:24">4:24</a> Remove perverse speech from your mouth; keep devious talk far from your lips.

<a name="4:25">4:25</a> Let your eyes look directly in front of you and let your gaze look straight before you.

<a name="4:26">4:26</a> Make the path for your feet level, so that all your ways may be established.

<a name="4:27">4:27</a> Do not turn to the right or to the left; turn yourself away from evil.
