---
title: 06
parent: Proverbs
other: x
---

## Admonitions and Warnings against Dangerous and Destructive Acts


<a name="6:1">6:1</a> My child, if you have made a pledge for your neighbor, and have become a guarantor for a stranger,

<a name="6:2">6:2</a> if you have been ensnared by the words you have uttered, and have been caught by the words you have spoken,

<a name="6:3">6:3</a> then, my child, do this in order to deliver yourself, because you have fallen into your neighbor’s power: go, humble yourself, and appeal firmly to your neighbor.

<a name="6:4">6:4</a> Do not give sleep to your eyes or slumber to your eyelids.

<a name="6:5">6:5</a> Deliver yourself like a gazelle from a snare, and like a bird from the trap of the fowler.

<a name="6:6">6:6</a> Go to the ant, you sluggard; observe its ways and be wise!

<a name="6:7">6:7</a> It has no commander, overseer, or ruler,

<a name="6:8">6:8</a> yet it prepares its food in the summer; it gathers at the harvest what it will eat.

<a name="6:9">6:9</a> How long, you sluggard, will you lie there? When will you rise from your sleep?

<a name="6:10">6:10</a> A little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to relax,

<a name="6:11">6:11</a> and your poverty will come like a robber, and your need like an armed man.

<a name="6:12">6:12</a> A worthless and wicked person walks around saying perverse things;

<a name="6:13">6:13</a> he winks with his eyes, signals with his feet, and points with his fingers;

<a name="6:14">6:14</a> he plots evil with perverse thoughts in his heart, he spreads contention at all times.

<a name="6:15">6:15</a> Therefore, his disaster will come suddenly; in an instant he will be broken, and there will be no remedy.

<a name="6:16">6:16</a> There are six things that the Lord hates, even seven things that are an abomination to him:

<a name="6:17">6:17</a> haughty eyes, a lying tongue, and hands that shed innocent blood,

<a name="6:18">6:18</a> a heart that devises wicked plans, feet that are swift to run to evil,

<a name="6:19">6:19</a> a false witness who pours out lies, and a person who spreads discord among family members.

<a name="6:20">6:20</a> My child, guard the commands of your father and do not forsake the instruction of your mother.

<a name="6:21">6:21</a> Bind them on your heart continually; fasten them around your neck.

<a name="6:22">6:22</a> When you walk about, they will guide you; when you lie down, they will watch over you; when you wake up, they will talk to you.

<a name="6:23">6:23</a> For the commandments are like a lamp, instruction is like a light, and rebukes of discipline are like the road leading to life,

<a name="6:24">6:24</a> by keeping you from the evil woman, from the smooth tongue of the loose woman.

<a name="6:25">6:25</a> Do not lust in your heart for her beauty, and do not let her captivate you with her alluring eyes;

<a name="6:26">6:26</a> for on account of a prostitute one is brought down to a loaf of bread, but the wife of another man preys on your precious life.

<a name="6:27">6:27</a> Can a man hold fire against his chest without burning his clothes?

<a name="6:28">6:28</a> Can a man walk on hot coals without scorching his feet?

<a name="6:29">6:29</a> So it is with the one who has sex with his neighbor’s wife; no one who touches her will escape punishment.

<a name="6:30">6:30</a> People do not despise a thief when he steals to fulfill his need when he is hungry.

<a name="6:31">6:31</a> Yet if he is caught he must repay seven times over, he might even have to give all the wealth of his house.

<a name="6:32">6:32</a> A man who commits adultery with a woman lacks wisdom, whoever does it destroys his own life.

<a name="6:33">6:33</a> He will be beaten and despised, and his reproach will not be wiped away;

<a name="6:34">6:34</a> for jealousy kindles a husband’s rage, and he will not show mercy when he takes revenge.

<a name="6:35">6:35</a> He will not consider any compensation; he will not be willing, even if you multiply the compensation.
