---
title: 07
parent: Proverbs
other: x
---

## Admonition to Avoid the Wiles of the Adulteress


<a name="7:1">7:1</a> My child, keep my words and treasure up my commands within your own keeping.

<a name="7:2">7:2</a> Keep my commands so that you may live, and obey my instruction as your most prized possession.

<a name="7:3">7:3</a> Bind them on your forearm; write them on the tablet of your heart.

<a name="7:4">7:4</a> Say to wisdom, “You are my sister,” and call understanding a close relative,

<a name="7:5">7:5</a> so that they may keep you from the adulterous woman, from the loose woman who flatters you with her words.

<a name="7:6">7:6</a> For at the window of my house through my window-lattice I looked out

<a name="7:7">7:7</a> and I saw among the naive, I discerned among the youths, a young man who lacked wisdom.

<a name="7:8">7:8</a> He was passing by the street near her corner, making his way along the road to her house

<a name="7:9">7:9</a> in the twilight, the evening, in the dark of the night.

<a name="7:10">7:10</a> All of a sudden a woman came out to meet him! She was dressed like a prostitute and with secret intent.

<a name="7:11">7:11</a> (She is loud and rebellious, she does not remain at home — 

<a name="7:12">7:12</a> at one time outside, at another in the wide plazas, and by every corner she lies in wait.)

<a name="7:13">7:13</a> So she grabbed him and kissed him, and with a bold expression she said to him,

<a name="7:14">7:14</a> “I have fresh meat at home; today I have fulfilled my vows!

<a name="7:15">7:15</a> That is why I came out to meet you, to look for you, and I found you!

<a name="7:16">7:16</a> I have spread my bed with elegant coverings, with richly colored fabric from Egypt.

<a name="7:17">7:17</a> I have perfumed my bed with myrrh, aloes, and cinnamon.

<a name="7:18">7:18</a> Come, let’s drink deeply of lovemaking until morning, let’s delight ourselves with sexual intercourse.

<a name="7:19">7:19</a> For my husband is not at home; he has gone on a journey of some distance.

<a name="7:20">7:20</a> He has taken a bag of money with him; he will not return until the end of the month.”

<a name="7:21">7:21</a> She persuaded him with persuasive words; with her smooth speech she compelled him.

<a name="7:22">7:22</a> Suddenly he went after her like an ox that goes to the slaughter, like a stag prancing into a trapper’s snare

<a name="7:23">7:23</a> till an arrow pierces his liver —  like a bird hurrying into a trap, and he does not know that it will cost him his life.

<a name="7:24">7:24</a> So now, sons, listen to me, and pay attention to the words I speak.

<a name="7:25">7:25</a> Do not let your heart turn aside to her ways; do not wander into her pathways;

<a name="7:26">7:26</a> for she has brought down many fatally wounded, and all those she has slain are many.

<a name="7:27">7:27</a> Her house is the way to the grave, going down to the chambers of death.
