---
title: 09
parent: Proverbs
other: x
---

## The Consequences of Accepting Wisdom or Folly


<a name="9:1">9:1</a> Wisdom has built her house; she has carved out its seven pillars.

<a name="9:2">9:2</a> She has prepared her meat, she has mixed her wine; she also has arranged her table.

<a name="9:3">9:3</a> She has sent out her female servants; she calls out on the highest places of the city.

<a name="9:4">9:4</a> “Whoever is naive, let him turn in here,” she says to those who lack understanding.

<a name="9:5">9:5</a> “Come, eat some of my food, and drink some of the wine I have mixed.

<a name="9:6">9:6</a> Abandon your foolish ways so that you may live, and proceed in the way of understanding.”

<a name="9:7">9:7</a> Whoever corrects a mocker is asking for insult; whoever reproves a wicked person receives abuse.

<a name="9:8">9:8</a> Do not reprove a mocker or he will hate you; reprove a wise person and he will love you.

<a name="9:9">9:9</a> Give instruction to a wise person, and he will become wiser still; teach a righteous person and he will add to his learning.

<a name="9:10">9:10</a> The beginning of wisdom is to fear the Lord, and acknowledging the Holy One is understanding.

<a name="9:11">9:11</a> For because of me your days will be many, and years will be added to your life.

<a name="9:12">9:12</a> If you are wise, you are wise to your own advantage, but if you are a mocker, you alone must bear it.

<a name="9:13">9:13</a> The woman called Folly is brash, she is naive and does not know anything.

<a name="9:14">9:14</a> So she sits at the door of her house, on a seat at the highest point of the city,

<a name="9:15">9:15</a> calling out to those who are passing by her in the way, who go straight on their way.

<a name="9:16">9:16</a> “Whoever is simple, let him turn in here,” she says to those who lack understanding.

<a name="9:17">9:17</a> “Stolen waters are sweet, and food obtained in secret is pleasant!”

<a name="9:18">9:18</a> But they do not know that the dead are there, that her guests are in the depths of the grave.
