---
title: 10
parent: Proverbs
other: x
---

## The First Collection of Solomonic Proverbs


<a name="10:1">10:1</a> The Proverbs of Solomon: A wise child makes a father rejoice, but a foolish child is a grief to his mother.

<a name="10:2">10:2</a> Treasures gained by wickedness do not profit, but righteousness delivers from mortal danger.

<a name="10:3">10:3</a> The Lord satisfies the appetite of the righteous, but he thwarts the craving of the wicked.

<a name="10:4">10:4</a> The one who is lazy becomes poor, but the one who works diligently becomes wealthy.

<a name="10:5">10:5</a> The one who gathers crops in the summer is a wise son, but the one who sleeps during the harvest is a son who brings shame to himself.

<a name="10:6">10:6</a> Blessings are on the head of the righteous, but the speech of the wicked conceals violence.

<a name="10:7">10:7</a> The memory of the righteous is a blessing, but the reputation of the wicked will rot.

<a name="10:8">10:8</a> The wise person accepts instructions, but the one who speaks foolishness will come to ruin.

<a name="10:9">10:9</a> The one who conducts himself in integrity will live securely, but the one who behaves perversely will be found out.

<a name="10:10">10:10</a> The one who winks his eye causes trouble, and the one who speaks foolishness will come to ruin.

<a name="10:11">10:11</a> The teaching of the righteous is a fountain of life, but the speech of the wicked conceals violence.

<a name="10:12">10:12</a> Hatred stirs up dissension, but love covers all transgressions.

<a name="10:13">10:13</a> Wisdom is found in the speech of the discerning person, but the one who lacks wisdom will be disciplined.

<a name="10:14">10:14</a> Those who are wise store up knowledge, but foolish speech leads to imminent destruction.

<a name="10:15">10:15</a> The wealth of a rich person is like a strong city, but the poor are brought to ruin by their poverty.

<a name="10:16">10:16</a> The reward which the righteous receive is life; the recompense which the wicked receive is judgment.

<a name="10:17">10:17</a> The one who heeds instruction is on the way to life, but the one who rejects rebuke goes astray.

<a name="10:18">10:18</a> The one who conceals hatred utters lies, and the one who spreads slander is certainly a fool.

<a name="10:19">10:19</a> When words abound, transgression is inevitable, but the one who restrains his words is wise.

<a name="10:20">10:20</a> What the righteous say is like the best silver, but what the wicked think is of little value.

<a name="10:21">10:21</a> The teaching of the righteous feeds many, but fools die for lack of wisdom.

<a name="10:22">10:22</a> The blessing from the Lord makes a person rich, and he adds no sorrow to it.

<a name="10:23">10:23</a> Carrying out a wicked scheme is enjoyable to a fool, and so is wisdom for the one who has discernment.

<a name="10:24">10:24</a> What the wicked fears will come on him; what the righteous desire will be granted.

<a name="10:25">10:25</a> When the storm passes through, the wicked are swept away, but the righteous are an everlasting foundation.

<a name="10:26">10:26</a> Like vinegar to the teeth and like smoke to the eyes, so is the sluggard to those who send him.

<a name="10:27">10:27</a> Fearing the Lord prolongs life, but the life span of the wicked will be shortened.

<a name="10:28">10:28</a> The hope of the righteous is joy, but the expectation of the wicked will remain unfulfilled.

<a name="10:29">10:29</a> The way of the Lord is like a stronghold for the upright, but it is destruction to evildoers.

<a name="10:30">10:30</a> The righteous will never be moved, but the wicked will not inhabit the land.

<a name="10:31">10:31</a> The speech of the righteous bears the fruit of wisdom, but the one who speaks perversion will be destroyed.

<a name="10:32">10:32</a> The lips of the righteous know what is pleasing, but the speech of the wicked is perverse.
