---
title: 11
parent: Proverbs
other: x
---

<a name="11:1">11:1</a> The Lord abhors dishonest scales, but a perfect weight is his delight.

<a name="11:2">11:2</a> When pride comes, then comes disgrace, but with humility comes wisdom.

<a name="11:3">11:3</a> The integrity of the upright guides them, but the crookedness of the unfaithful destroys them.

<a name="11:4">11:4</a> Wealth does not profit in the day of wrath, but righteousness delivers from mortal danger.

<a name="11:5">11:5</a> The righteousness of the blameless will make straight their way, but the wicked person will fall by his own wickedness.

<a name="11:6">11:6</a> The righteousness of the upright will deliver them, but the faithless ones will be captured by their desires.

<a name="11:7">11:7</a> When a wicked person dies, his expectation perishes, and the hope of his strength perishes.

<a name="11:8">11:8</a> The righteous person is delivered out of trouble, and the wicked turns up in his stead.

<a name="11:9">11:9</a> With his speech the godless person destroys his neighbor, but by knowledge the righteous will be delivered.

<a name="11:10">11:10</a> When the righteous do well, the city rejoices; when the wicked perish, there is joy.

<a name="11:11">11:11</a> A city is exalted by the blessing provided from the upright, but it is destroyed by the counsel of the wicked.

<a name="11:12">11:12</a> The one who denounces his neighbor lacks wisdom, but the one who has discernment keeps silent.

<a name="11:13">11:13</a> The one who goes about slandering others reveals secrets, but the one who is trustworthy conceals a matter.

<a name="11:14">11:14</a> When there is no guidance a nation falls, but there is success in the abundance of counselors.

<a name="11:15">11:15</a> The one who puts up security for a stranger will surely have trouble, but whoever avoids shaking hands will be secure.

<a name="11:16">11:16</a> A generous woman gains honor, and ruthless men seize wealth.

<a name="11:17">11:17</a> A kind person benefits himself, but a cruel person brings himself trouble.

<a name="11:18">11:18</a> The wicked person earns deceitful wages, but the one who sows righteousness reaps a genuine reward.

<a name="11:19">11:19</a> True righteousness leads to life, but the one who pursues evil pursues it to his own death.

<a name="11:20">11:20</a> The Lord abhors those who are perverse in heart, but those who are blameless in their ways are his delight.

<a name="11:21">11:21</a> Be assured that the evil person will certainly be punished, but the descendants of the righteous will not suffer unjust judgment.

<a name="11:22">11:22</a> Like a gold ring in a pig’s snout, so is a beautiful woman who rejects discretion.

<a name="11:23">11:23</a> What the righteous desire leads only to good, but what the wicked hope for leads to wrath.

<a name="11:24">11:24</a> One person is generous and yet grows more wealthy, but another withholds more than he ought and comes to poverty.

<a name="11:25">11:25</a> A generous person will be enriched, and the one who provides water for others will himself be satisfied.

<a name="11:26">11:26</a> People will curse the one who withholds grain, but they will praise the one who sells it.

<a name="11:27">11:27</a> The one who diligently seeks good seeks favor, but the one who searches for evil — it will come to him.

<a name="11:28">11:28</a> The one who trusts in his riches will fall, but the righteous will flourish like a green leaf.

<a name="11:29">11:29</a> The one who troubles his family will inherit nothing, and the fool will be a servant to the wise person.

<a name="11:30">11:30</a> The fruit of the righteous is like a tree producing life, and the one who wins souls is wise.

<a name="11:31">11:31</a> If the righteous are recompensed on earth, how much more the wicked sinner!
