---
title: 13
parent: Proverbs
other: x
---

<a name="13:1">13:1</a> A wise son accepts his father’s discipline, but a scoffer does not listen to rebuke.

<a name="13:2">13:2</a> From the fruit of his speech a person eats good things, but the faithless desire the fruit of violence.

<a name="13:3">13:3</a> The one who guards his words guards his life, but whoever is talkative will come to ruin.

<a name="13:4">13:4</a> The appetite of the sluggard craves but gets nothing, but the desire of the diligent will be abundantly satisfied.

<a name="13:5">13:5</a> The righteous person hates anything false, but the wicked person acts in shameful disgrace.

<a name="13:6">13:6</a> Righteousness guards the one who lives with integrity, but wickedness overthrows the sinner.

<a name="13:7">13:7</a> There is one who pretends to be rich and yet has nothing; another pretends to be poor and yet possesses great wealth.

<a name="13:8">13:8</a> The ransom of a person’s life is his wealth, but the poor person hears no threat.

<a name="13:9">13:9</a> The light of the righteous shines brightly, but the lamp of the wicked goes out.

<a name="13:10">13:10</a> With pride comes only contention, but wisdom is with the well-advised.

<a name="13:11">13:11</a> Wealth gained quickly will dwindle away, but the one who gathers it little by little will become rich.

<a name="13:12">13:12</a> Hope deferred makes the heart sick, but a longing fulfilled is like a tree of life.

<a name="13:13">13:13</a> The one who despises instruction will pay the penalty, but whoever esteems instruction will be rewarded.

<a name="13:14">13:14</a> Instruction from the wise is like a life-giving fountain, to turn a person from deadly snares.

<a name="13:15">13:15</a> Keen insight wins favor, but the conduct of the unfaithful is harsh.

<a name="13:16">13:16</a> Every shrewd person acts with knowledge, but a fool displays his folly.

<a name="13:17">13:17</a> An unreliable messenger falls into trouble, but a faithful envoy brings healing.

<a name="13:18">13:18</a> The one who neglects discipline comes to poverty and shame, but the one who accepts reproof is honored.

<a name="13:19">13:19</a> A desire fulfilled is sweet to the soul, but fools abhor turning away from evil.

<a name="13:20">13:20</a> The one who associates with the wise grows wise, but a companion of fools suffers harm.

<a name="13:21">13:21</a> Calamity pursues sinners, but prosperity rewards the righteous.

<a name="13:22">13:22</a> A benevolent person leaves an inheritance for his grandchildren, but the wealth of a sinner is stored up for the righteous.

<a name="13:23">13:23</a> There is abundant food in the field of the poor, but it is swept away by injustice.

<a name="13:24">13:24</a> The one who spares his rod hates his child, but the one who loves his child is diligent in disciplining him.

<a name="13:25">13:25</a> The righteous has enough food to satisfy his appetite, but the belly of the wicked lacks food.
