---
title: 15
parent: Proverbs
other: x
---

<a name="15:1">15:1</a> A gentle response turns away anger, but a harsh word stirs up wrath.

<a name="15:2">15:2</a> The tongue of the wise treats knowledge correctly, but the mouth of the fool spouts out folly.

<a name="15:3">15:3</a> The eyes of the Lord are in every place, keeping watch on those who are evil and those who are good.

<a name="15:4">15:4</a> Speech that heals is like a life-giving tree, but perversion in it breaks the spirit.

<a name="15:5">15:5</a> A fool rejects his father’s discipline, but whoever heeds reproof shows good sense.

<a name="15:6">15:6</a> In the house of the righteous is abundant wealth, but the income of the wicked brings trouble.

<a name="15:7">15:7</a> The lips of the wise spread knowledge, but not so the heart of fools.

<a name="15:8">15:8</a> The Lord abhors the sacrifices of the wicked, but the prayer of the upright pleases him.

<a name="15:9">15:9</a> The Lord abhors the way of the wicked, but he loves those who pursue righteousness.

<a name="15:10">15:10</a> Severe discipline is for the one who abandons the way; the one who hates reproof will die.

<a name="15:11">15:11</a> Death and Destruction are before the Lord —  how much more the hearts of humans!

<a name="15:12">15:12</a> The scorner does not love one who corrects him; he will not go to the wise.

<a name="15:13">15:13</a> A joyful heart makes the face cheerful, but by a painful heart the spirit is broken.

<a name="15:14">15:14</a> The discerning heart seeks knowledge, but the mouth of fools feeds on folly.

<a name="15:15">15:15</a> All the days of the afflicted are bad, but one with a cheerful heart has a continual feast.

<a name="15:16">15:16</a> Better is little with the fear of the Lord than great wealth with turmoil in it.

<a name="15:17">15:17</a> Better a meal of vegetables where there is love than a fattened ox where there is hatred.

<a name="15:18">15:18</a> A quick-tempered person stirs up dissension, but one who is slow to anger calms a quarrel.

<a name="15:19">15:19</a> The way of the sluggard is like a hedge of thorns, but the path of the upright is like a highway.

<a name="15:20">15:20</a> A wise child brings joy to his father, but a foolish person despises his mother.

<a name="15:21">15:21</a> Folly is a joy to one who lacks sense, but one who has understanding follows an upright course.

<a name="15:22">15:22</a> Plans fail when there is no counsel, but with abundant advisers they are established.

<a name="15:23">15:23</a> A person has joy in giving a proper answer, and a word at the right time — how good it is!

<a name="15:24">15:24</a> The path of life is upward for the wise person, to keep him from going downward to Sheol.

<a name="15:25">15:25</a> The Lord tears down the house of the proud, but he maintains the boundaries of the widow.

<a name="15:26">15:26</a> The Lord abhors the plans of the wicked, but pleasant words are pure.

<a name="15:27">15:27</a> The one who is greedy for gain troubles his household, but whoever hates bribes will live.

<a name="15:28">15:28</a> The heart of the righteous considers how to answer, but the mouth of the wicked pours out evil things.

<a name="15:29">15:29</a> The Lord is far from the wicked, but he hears the prayer of the righteous.

<a name="15:30">15:30</a> A bright look brings joy to the heart, and good news gives health to the body.

<a name="15:31">15:31</a> The person who hears the reproof that leads to life is at home in the midst of the wise.

<a name="15:32">15:32</a> The one who refuses correction despises himself, but whoever hears reproof acquires understanding.

<a name="15:33">15:33</a> The fear of the Lord provides wise instruction, and before honor comes humility.
