---
title: 19
parent: Proverbs
other: x
---

<a name="19:1">19:1</a> Better is a poor person who walks in his integrity than one who is perverse in his speech and is a fool.

<a name="19:2">19:2</a> It is dangerous to have zeal without knowledge, and the one who acts hastily makes poor choices.

<a name="19:3">19:3</a> A person’s folly subverts his way, and his heart rages against the Lord.

<a name="19:4">19:4</a> Wealth adds many friends, but a poor person is separated from his friend.

<a name="19:5">19:5</a> A false witness will not go unpunished, and the one who pours out lies will not escape punishment.

<a name="19:6">19:6</a> Many people entreat the favor of a generous person, and everyone is the friend of the one who gives gifts.

<a name="19:7">19:7</a> All the relatives of a poor person hate him; how much more do his friends go far from him —  he pursues them with words, but they do not respond.

<a name="19:8">19:8</a> The one who acquires wisdom loves himself; the one who preserves understanding will prosper.

<a name="19:9">19:9</a> A false witness will not go unpunished, and the one who pours out lies will perish.

<a name="19:10">19:10</a> Luxury is not appropriate for a fool; how much less for a servant to rule over princes!

<a name="19:11">19:11</a> A person’s wisdom makes him slow to anger, and it is his glory to overlook an offense.

<a name="19:12">19:12</a> A king’s wrath is like the roar of a lion, but his favor is like dew on the grass.

<a name="19:13">19:13</a> A foolish child is the ruin of his father, and a contentious wife is like a constant dripping.

<a name="19:14">19:14</a> A house and wealth are the inheritance from parents, but a prudent wife is from the Lord.

<a name="19:15">19:15</a> Laziness brings on a deep sleep, and the idle person will go hungry.

<a name="19:16">19:16</a> The one who obeys commandments guards his life; the one who despises his ways will die.

<a name="19:17">19:17</a> The one who is gracious to the poor lends to the Lord, and the Lord will repay him for his good deed.

<a name="19:18">19:18</a> Discipline your child while there is hope, but do not set your heart on causing his death.

<a name="19:19">19:19</a> A person with great anger bears the penalty, but if you deliver him from it, you will have to do it again.

<a name="19:20">19:20</a> Listen to advice and receive discipline, that you may become wise by the end of your life.

<a name="19:21">19:21</a> There are many plans in a person’s mind, but it is the counsel of the Lord which will stand.

<a name="19:22">19:22</a> What is desirable for a person is to show loyal love, and a poor person is better than a liar.

<a name="19:23">19:23</a> Fearing the Lord leads to life, and one who does so will live satisfied; he will not be afflicted by calamity.

<a name="19:24">19:24</a> The sluggard buries his hand in the dish, and he will not even bring it back to his mouth!

<a name="19:25">19:25</a> Beat a scorner, and as a result the simpleton will learn prudence; correct a discerning person, and as a result he will understand knowledge.

<a name="19:26">19:26</a> The one who robs his father and drives out his mother is a son who brings shame and disgrace.

<a name="19:27">19:27</a> If you stop listening to instruction, my child, you will stray from the words of knowledge.

<a name="19:28">19:28</a> A crooked witness scorns justice, and the mouth of the wicked devours iniquity.

<a name="19:29">19:29</a> Judgments are prepared for scorners, and floggings for the backs of fools.
