---
title: 20
parent: Proverbs
other: x
---

<a name="20:1">20:1</a> Wine is a mocker and strong drink is a brawler; whoever goes astray by them is not wise.

<a name="20:2">20:2</a> The king’s terrifying anger is like the roar of a lion; whoever provokes him sins against himself.

<a name="20:3">20:3</a> It is an honor for a person to cease from strife, but every fool quarrels.

<a name="20:4">20:4</a> The sluggard will not plow during the planting season, so at the harvest time he looks for the crop but has nothing.

<a name="20:5">20:5</a> Counsel in a person’s heart is like deep water, but an understanding person draws it out.

<a name="20:6">20:6</a> Many people profess their loyalty, but a faithful person — who can find?

<a name="20:7">20:7</a> The righteous person behaves in integrity; blessed are his children after him.

<a name="20:8">20:8</a> A king sitting on the throne to judge separates out all evil with his eyes.

<a name="20:9">20:9</a> Who can say, “I have kept my heart clean; I am pure from my sin”?

<a name="20:10">20:10</a> Diverse weights and diverse measures —  the Lord abhors both of them.

<a name="20:11">20:11</a> Even a young man is known by his actions, whether his activity is pure and whether it is right.

<a name="20:12">20:12</a> The ear that hears and the eye that sees —  the Lord has made them both.

<a name="20:13">20:13</a> Do not love sleep, lest you become impoverished; open your eyes so that you might be satisfied with food.

<a name="20:14">20:14</a> “It’s worthless! It’s worthless!” says the buyer, but when he goes on his way, he boasts.

<a name="20:15">20:15</a> There is gold, and an abundance of rubies, but words of knowledge are like a precious jewel.

<a name="20:16">20:16</a> Take a man’s garment when he has given security for a stranger, and when he gives surety for strangers, hold him in pledge.

<a name="20:17">20:17</a> Bread gained by deceit is sweet to a person, but afterward his mouth will be filled with gravel.

<a name="20:18">20:18</a> Plans are established by counsel, so make war with guidance.

<a name="20:19">20:19</a> The one who goes about gossiping reveals secrets; therefore do not associate with one who is always opening his mouth.

<a name="20:20">20:20</a> The one who curses his father and his mother, his lamp will be put out in the blackest darkness.

<a name="20:21">20:21</a> An inheritance gained easily in the beginning will not be blessed in its end.

<a name="20:22">20:22</a> Do not say, “I will pay back evil!” Wait for the Lord, so that he may vindicate you.

<a name="20:23">20:23</a> The Lord abhors differing weights, and dishonest scales are wicked.

<a name="20:24">20:24</a> The steps of a person are ordained by the Lord —  so how can anyone understand his own way?

<a name="20:25">20:25</a> It is a snare for a person to rashly cry, “Holy!” and only afterward to consider what he has vowed.

<a name="20:26">20:26</a> A wise king separates out the wicked; he turns the threshing wheel over them.

<a name="20:27">20:27</a> The human spirit is like the lamp of the Lord, searching all the innermost parts.

<a name="20:28">20:28</a> Loyal love and truth preserve a king, and his throne is upheld by loyal love.

<a name="20:29">20:29</a> The glory of young men is their strength, and the splendor of old men is gray hair.

<a name="20:30">20:30</a> Beatings and wounds cleanse away evil, and floggings cleanse the innermost being.
