---
title: 22
parent: Proverbs
other: x
---

<a name="22:1">22:1</a> A good name is to be chosen rather than great wealth, good favor more than silver or gold.

<a name="22:2">22:2</a> The rich and the poor meet together; the Lord is the Creator of them both.

<a name="22:3">22:3</a> A shrewd person sees danger and hides himself, but the naive keep right on going and suffer for it.

<a name="22:4">22:4</a> The reward for humility and fearing the Lord is riches and honor and life.

<a name="22:5">22:5</a> Thorns and snares are in the path of the perverse, but the one who guards himself keeps far from them.

<a name="22:6">22:6</a> Train a child in the way that he should go, and when he is old he will not turn from it.

<a name="22:7">22:7</a> The rich rule over the poor, and the borrower is servant to the lender.

<a name="22:8">22:8</a> The one who sows iniquity will reap trouble, and the rod of his fury will end.

<a name="22:9">22:9</a> A generous person will be blessed, for he gives some of his food to the poor.

<a name="22:10">22:10</a> Drive out the scorner and contention will leave; strife and insults will cease.

<a name="22:11">22:11</a> The one who loves a pure heart and whose speech is gracious — the king will be his friend.

<a name="22:12">22:12</a> The eyes of the Lord guard knowledge, but he overthrows the words of the faithless person.

<a name="22:13">22:13</a> The sluggard says, “There is a lion outside! I will be killed in the middle of the streets!”

<a name="22:14">22:14</a> The mouth of an adulteress is like a deep pit; the one against whom the Lord is angry will fall into it.

<a name="22:15">22:15</a> Folly is bound up in the heart of a child, but the rod of discipline will drive it far from him.

<a name="22:16">22:16</a> The one who oppresses the poor to gain his own increase and the one who gives to the rich — both end up only in poverty.

## The Sayings of the Wise


<a name="22:17">22:17</a> Incline your ear and listen to the words of the wise, and apply your heart to my knowledge.

<a name="22:18">22:18</a> For it is pleasing if you keep these sayings within you, and they are ready on your lips.

<a name="22:19">22:19</a> So that your confidence may be in the Lord, I make them known to you today — even you.

<a name="22:20">22:20</a> Have I not written thirty sayings for you, sayings of counsel and knowledge,

<a name="22:21">22:21</a> to show you true and reliable words, so that you may give accurate answers to those who sent you?

<a name="22:22">22:22</a> Do not exploit a poor person because he is poor and do not crush the needy in court,

<a name="22:23">22:23</a> for the Lord will plead their case and will rob those who are robbing them.

<a name="22:24">22:24</a> Do not make friends with an angry person, and do not associate with a wrathful person,

<a name="22:25">22:25</a> lest you learn his ways and entangle yourself in a snare.

<a name="22:26">22:26</a> Do not be one who strikes hands in pledge or who puts up security for debts.

<a name="22:27">22:27</a> If you do not have enough to pay, your bed will be taken right out from under you!

<a name="22:28">22:28</a> Do not move an ancient boundary stone which was put in place by your ancestors.

<a name="22:29">22:29</a> Do you see a person skilled in his work? He will take his position before kings; he will not take his position before obscure people.
