---
title: 23
parent: Proverbs
other: x
---

<a name="23:1">23:1</a> When you sit down to eat with a ruler, consider carefully what is before you,

<a name="23:2">23:2</a> and put a knife to your throat if you possess a large appetite.

<a name="23:3">23:3</a> Do not crave that ruler’s delicacies, for that food is deceptive.

<a name="23:4">23:4</a> Do not wear yourself out to become rich; be wise enough to restrain yourself.

<a name="23:5">23:5</a> When you gaze upon riches, they are gone, for they surely make wings for themselves, and fly off into the sky like an eagle!

<a name="23:6">23:6</a> Do not eat the food of a stingy person, do not crave his delicacies;

<a name="23:7">23:7</a> for he is like someone calculating the cost in his mind. “Eat and drink,” he says to you, but his heart is not with you;

<a name="23:8">23:8</a> you will vomit up the little bit you have eaten, and will have wasted your pleasant words.

<a name="23:9">23:9</a> Do not speak in the ears of a fool, for he will despise the wisdom of your words.

<a name="23:10">23:10</a> Do not move an ancient boundary stone, or take over the fields of the fatherless,

<a name="23:11">23:11</a> for their Protector is strong; he will plead their case against you.

<a name="23:12">23:12</a> Apply your heart to instruction and your ears to the words of knowledge.

<a name="23:13">23:13</a> Do not withhold discipline from a child; even if you strike him with the rod, he will not die.

<a name="23:14">23:14</a> If you strike him with the rod, you will deliver his life from death.

<a name="23:15">23:15</a> My child, if your heart is wise, then my heart also will be glad;

<a name="23:16">23:16</a> my soul will rejoice when your lips speak what is right.

<a name="23:17">23:17</a> Do not let your heart envy sinners, but rather be zealous in fearing the Lord all the time.

<a name="23:18">23:18</a> For surely there is a future, and your hope will not be cut off.

<a name="23:19">23:19</a> Listen, my child, and be wise, and guide your heart on the right way.

<a name="23:20">23:20</a> Do not be among those who drink too much wine, among those who eat too much meat,

<a name="23:21">23:21</a> because drunkards and gluttons become impoverished, and drowsiness clothes them with rags.

<a name="23:22">23:22</a> Listen to your father who begot you, and do not despise your mother when she is old.

<a name="23:23">23:23</a> Acquire truth and do not sell it —  wisdom, and discipline, and understanding.

<a name="23:24">23:24</a> The father of a righteous person will rejoice greatly; whoever fathers a wise child will have joy in him.

<a name="23:25">23:25</a> May your father and your mother have joy; may she who bore you rejoice.

<a name="23:26">23:26</a> Give me your heart, my child, and let your eyes observe my ways;

<a name="23:27">23:27</a> for a prostitute is like a deep pit; a harlot is like a narrow well.

<a name="23:28">23:28</a> Indeed, she lies in wait like a robber, and increases the unfaithful among men.

<a name="23:29">23:29</a> Who has woe? Who has sorrow? Who has contentions? Who has complaints? Who has wounds without cause? Who has dullness of the eyes?

<a name="23:30">23:30</a> Those who linger over wine, those who go looking for mixed wine.

<a name="23:31">23:31</a> Do not look on the wine when it is red, when it sparkles in the cup, when it goes down smoothly.

<a name="23:32">23:32</a> Afterward it bites like a snake, and stings like a viper.

<a name="23:33">23:33</a> Your eyes will see strange things, and your mind will speak perverse things.

<a name="23:34">23:34</a> And you will be like one who lies down in the midst of the sea, and like one who lies down on the top of the rigging.

<a name="23:35">23:35</a> You will say, “They have struck me, but I am not harmed! They beat me, but I did not know it! When will I awake? I will look for another drink.”
